A young man just under 18 years of age was visited by a heavenly messenger who stated that he was sent from the presence of God. This messenger, Moroni, was the last prophet in the Book of Mormon. The young man was Joseph Smith.Moroni quoted many passages of scripture, most of which declared that the time had come to prepare the way for the coming of Jesus Christ in his glory. He quoted Malachi: “Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts.” This emphasizes the fact that when the Lord comes again, he will come “to his temple,” which means there must be a temple on earth for him to come to.Moroni also quoted the fifth and sixth verses of chapter 4, which are slightly different from the Bible:“Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. …“… and he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.” It seems very significant to me that, among the  instructions to the Prophet in the process of the restoration of the gospel, this work, which has to do with temples and the ordinances performed therein, was given. This must be very fundamental to the essentials of the gospel of Jesus Christ.To fulfill the requirements in this message, there must be a temple. Elijah must come with the authority of the priesthood, and there must be living members of the Church gathering the records of their ancestors and getting the work done to fulfill the promise made to them that their sealings would also be done.God himself established the first family—Adam and Eve. The family is not an institution developed by man to be outgrown and cast aside in the course of human progress. All that is nearest and dearest in our lives is associated with our families. Love has its center here, and where love is, there we find happiness also. Truly it is not good for man to be alone. The Lord in his wisdom has provided a way for man to be happy on this earth and to carry that joy on through all eternity. The greatest joy and happiness come through the family unit. It has been so through all mortality, so why will it not be so in the next life?This family unit is so important that the Lord has made it known to us that by the time of the end of the Millennium all of Adam’s posterity who accept the gospel must be sealed together as one family by the power of the priesthood, which is the power to seal on earth and it shall be sealed in heaven, and to bind on earth and it shall be bound in heaven.Every person who comes on this earth must have an opportunity to receive all the blessings of these sealings, if he will accept, sometime before the end of the Millennium. There could not be a just God if it were otherwise.These sealing blessings are obtained first through the ordinance of baptism into the church of Jesus Christ. Then the wife is sealed to her husband for time and all eternity, and those children who are not born under the marriage covenant must be sealed to their parents, that they may receive all the blessings as though they were born under the new and everlasting covenant.Those who have died without this law may have the privilege of receiving these blessings by proxy.  is where  responsibility comes in. We must first teach the gospel to the living. Then we must gather the records of those of our families who died without this law and get this great and important work done for them.The promise was given to our forefathers that when the gospel is restored in the last days, “the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers.”  This means we must fulfill the promise to our ancestors to do the ordinance work for them. If we do not, then our own salvation may be in jeopardy.Not only the ordinance of baptism, but also the sealing of families together as an eternal unit must be done on the earth. Hence, we must perform these ordinances ourselves first, then by proxy for our ancestors who have passed on to the spirit world. These most sacred ordinances must be performed in a holy temple erected and dedicated to the Lord for this very purpose.In modern revelation the Lord commanded the Prophet Joseph Smith to “build a house to my name, for the Most High to dwell therein.“For there is not a place found on earth that he may come to and restore again that which was lost unto you, or which he hath taken away, even the fulness of the priesthood.” These temples are built for a special and most important purpose—where the living may receive their most holy ordinances, where families may be sealed together for all eternity. The family unit is the only eternal organization. The temples are beautiful buildings, and rightly should be, but are not just monuments for show alone. They are the only way whereby all the righteous, living and dead, can have the blessings of exaltation. The living come first. Then after they have performed these holy sealings, they should turn to their fathers and vicariously open the way for their ancestors to receive these same blessings.For this purpose family research must be done. Many choice spirits have been held in reserve to come to earth at this time so they could accept the gospel and do the temple work for their ancestors. Over and over again, I find among converts husband or wife, or husband and wife, who are the only ones in the family who are members of the Church. In most cases they, or someone in their family, have a good record of their family genealogy. Some eagerly send these records to the temple for the work to be done. Many, however, have many names in their possession which are not being sent in. We must not delay! The time is getting shorter all the time. With more temples being built, more work can be done. With each new temple, approximately 3,000 more names each day can be done. Do not hold these records. Fill out the regular forms and send them in to the temple.Even if the Lord has inspired people to preserve these records over the centuries, if the devil can persuade us to procrastinate and not get the temple work done, he will succeed in frustrating the Lord’s work. The story is told that Satan called a council of his agents and asked how they would combat the forces of righteousness. One said, “I’ll go and tell them it isn’t true.” Satan said, “No, that wouldn’t do.” The second said, “I’ll tell them it’s only half true.” “No,” Satan said, “that’s not enough.” The third said, “I’ll go and tell them it’s all true, but there is no need to hurry.” “Go,” Satan said. “That will get them every time.” Lucifer cannot win. We must do the Lord’s work for our ancestors or the earth would be “wasted at his coming.”  It seems that the destiny of this earth depends on whether or not we get this temple work done.The gospel has been restored in these the last days never to be taken from the earth again, to bring the blessings of salvation and exaltation to all God’s children who prove their worthiness through their faithfulness. The purpose of this earth and our life here is to give each and every one of Adam’s posterity the opportunity to end this life as a family unit for all eternity.I testify that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored in these the latter days with all the authority and power of his priesthood to bring about the eternity of the family unit for each of us, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.I am thankful, my brothers and sisters, for the truth that has been revealed through prophets of God, both in the past dispensations and in the present. We are blessed with ample truth regarding our origin, our mortal lives, and our destiny.The scriptures teach us that we lived in the spirit world before we were born into mortality. That is, we lived in the presence of God who is literally the Father of our spirits.When the great council was held in heaven, in which all of us were involved, the Father presented his plan for peopling the earth, and for the salvation of man. Lucifer wanted to amend the plan. He proposed to destroy the agency of man and to save all mankind, that not one soul would be lost. This he would accomplish through outright force and coercion, denying all persons the right of choice.Satan’s proposal of compulsion was rejected by the Father, and Lucifer “was angry, and kept not his first estate; and, … many followed after him.” We must have witnessed that tragic scene when Lucifer—brilliant, capable, yet lacking in intelligence to properly apply his knowledge (along with one-third of the hosts of heaven)—rose in hateful rebellion against God. And they were expelled from heaven, retaining the malignant powers to tempt and to persuade men to disobey God.The Father’s plan, accepted by Jehovah, provided man the right of choice, that through its exercise he might become strong and advance in learning, wisdom, and righteousness by conquering weaknesses and by resisting the temptations to do wrong. Then God said: “We will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell:“And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.” Now, God said also (and this is most important to you and to me):“Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; … I caused that he should be cast down;“And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice.” Now, the truth is that Satan lives! Indeed, some have seen his satanic majesty in spirit form.President Harold B. Lee warned us to “make no mistake about his reality as a personality, even though he does not possess a physical body. Since the beginning of time, he, with his hosts … have waged relentless war to destroy the free agency of man.” Those who teach that there is no devil or who declare him to be a figment of the imagination used only to frighten people are either ignorant of the facts or they themselves are deceived.How does Satan operate? What are his tactics? Using his superior knowledge, his unique powers of persuasion, half-truths, and complete lies, the evil one uses the spirit children who followed him (which were many), plus mortal beings who have yielded to his evil ways, to wage war against Jehovah and his followers; and they will, if they can, influence us to become critical and to rebel against God and his work. Thus he destroys the souls of men.The scriptures tell us: “Satan stirreth them up, that he may lead their souls to destruction.” “Yea, he saith unto them: Deceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy; behold, this is no harm. …“And thus he flattereth them, and leadeth them along until he draggeth their souls down to hell; and thus he causeth them to catch themselves in their own snare.“And thus he goeth up and down, to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men.” Now, the adversary knows that a little sin will not stay little, and he welcomes any and all into his kingdom by first trying to get us to lie a little, then helping us to try to justify ourselves in so doing or to cheat or to steal. Some folks are indeed induced to desecrate the Sabbath day until it becomes habitual with them. Some people begin with the use of liquor just to “relax a bit.” Also, drug abuse, evil speaking, disobedience to parents, or deceiving one’s own companions—these are means he has of getting us to digress from the proper course. He knows full well that, if continued, such diversions soon result in regrets, sorrows, and losses, because they lead us into greater sinfulness.No doubt one of the most infamous snares set out by the adversary is that of unchastity. The power to bring children into the world is God-given, and if that power is guarded and held sacred, it will result in happiness and blessings beyond measure. But if it is desecrated and polluted through illicit use, it will bring sorrow, misery, and self-condemnation.The First Presidency of the Church a few years ago issued a warning to the Latter-day Saints and to all people generally against the dreaded sins of unchastity. Among other things, they said: “The doctrine of this Church is that sexual sin—the illicit relations of men and women—stands, in its enormity, next to murder. … you cannot … escape the punishments and judgments which the Lord has declared against this sin. The day of reckoning will come as surely as night follows day.” ( 13 Feb. 1952, p. 16.)How, then, may we resist the evil one? In all his evil doings, the adversary can go no further than the transgressor permits him to go, and we can gain complete power to resist the evils caused by Satan through adherence to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Members of the Church may have the blessing of the Holy Ghost, the prompter, as a companion as well, and when the Holy Ghost is really within us, Satan must remain without. Study of the scriptures, prayer, faithful living of the commandments of the Lord, the discharge of church obligations and duties, being a considerate neighbor, and using the heaven-sent program of family home evenings can provide a basis for having the Holy Ghost as a constant companion and protector, which will result in peace and happiness.I tremble when I realize how the children of God are being tempted today, especially the youth; yet we have confidence in them. They are choice spirits. But they must realize that Jesus, not Satan, is their best friend; that happiness can come only through obedience to the commandments of God. We must help them prepare for and achieve their divine destiny. Nevertheless, if they fall into the snares of Satan, parents, priesthood leaders, and teachers must lead them out of the pitfalls and on to higher ground through the process of repentance.Recently our beloved president, Spencer W. Kimball, speaking to a multitude of youth, assured them that an awareness of the existence, the power, and the plans of Satan—together with a compelling and vibrant testimony of God and of the gospel and of the plans of our Father given through Jesus Christ, his Son, and the living prophets—can help them achieve unprecedented accomplishments, which may affect their lives eternally.Yes, brothers and sisters, Satan lives. He is real. He is cunning. But you may be assured that God, our Heavenly Father, reigns over all and is merciful and forgiving to those who truly seek him.And every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey. (See  To this I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.