We are the servants of the Lord, his agents, his representatives. We have been endowed with power from on high. We hold either the Aaronic Priesthood, which is a preparatory, schooling order, or we hold the Melchizedek Priesthood, which is the highest and greatest power that the Lord gives to men on earth.There are in this greater priesthood five offices or callings—elder, seventy, high priest, patriarch, and apostle—yet the priesthood is the same; and the priesthood is greater than any of its offices. We are a kingdom of brethren, a congregation of equals, all of whom are entitled to receive all of the blessings of the priesthood. There are no blessings reserved for apostles that are not freely available to all the elders of the kingdom; blessings come because of obedience and personal righteousness, not because of administrative positions.I shall speak of these blessings—the ten priesthood blessings—which are available to all of us who hold the holy Melchizedek Priesthood.
	
      “This greater priesthood administereth the gospel.” It “continueth in the church of God in all generations, and is without beginning of days or end of years.” The gospel is the plan of salvation; it is the way and the means, provided by the Father, whereby his spirit children have power to advance and progress and become like him. The priesthood is the power and authority of God, delegated to man on earth, to act in all things for the salvation of men.Where the Melchizedek Priesthood is, there is the Church and kingdom of God on earth; there is the gospel of salvation; and where there is no Melchizedek Priesthood, there is no true Church, and no power that will save men in the kingdom of God.
	
      The gift of the Holy Ghost is the right to the constant companionship of that member of the Godhead based on faithfulness. It is the right to receive revelation, to see visions, to be in tune with the Infinite.John, who held the Priesthood of Aaron, baptized with water for the remission of sins. Jesus, who was an high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, baptized with the Holy Ghost and with fire.The Holy Ghost is a revelator; he bears witness of the Father and the Son, those Holy Beings whom to know is eternal life. Thus it is that “this greater priesthood … holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God.” The spiritual gifts are the signs which follow those that believe; they are the miracles and healings performed in the name of the Lord Jesus; they include marvelous outpourings of truth and light and revelation from God in heaven to man on earth.Our revelations say that the Melchizedek Priesthood holds “the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the church,” and that all those who hold this holy order “have the privilege of receiving the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, to have the heavens opened unto them, to commune with the general assembly and church of the Firstborn, and to enjoy the communion and presence of God the Father, and Jesus the mediator of the new covenant.” 
	
      The Holy Ghost is the Sanctifier. Those who magnify their callings in the priesthood “are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.”  They are born again; they become new creatures of the Holy Ghost; they are alive in Christ.Of such faithful persons among the ancients, Alma says: “They were called after this holy order”—that is, they held the Melchizedek Priesthood—“and [they] were sanctified, and their garments were washed white through the blood of the Lamb. Now they, after being sanctified by the Holy Ghost, having their garments made white, being pure and spotless before God, could not look upon sin save it were with abhorrence; and there were many, exceeding great many, who were made pure and entered into the rest of the Lord their God.” 
	
      He preached the gospel; so can we. He spoke by the power of the Holy Ghost; so can we. He served as a missionary; so can we. He went about doing good; so can we. He performed the ordinances of salvation; so can we. He kept the commandments; so can we. He wrought miracles; such also is our privilege if we are true and faithful in all things.We are his agents; we represent him; we are expected to do and say what he would do and say if he personally were ministering among men at this time.
	
      “Thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity,” the Lord said to Adam. “Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons.” As the sons of God, we also have power to advance and progress until we become “joint-heirs with Christ,” until we have “conformed to the image” of God’s Son, as Paul expressed it. 
	
      To gain the highest heaven and to enjoy the fulness of that light and glory which comprise eternal life, we must “enter into” that “order of the priesthood” which bears the name “the new and everlasting covenant of marriage.”  see also 
	
      With reference to this, our scriptures say: “For God having sworn unto Enoch and unto his seed with an oath by himself; that every one being ordained after this order and calling should have power, by faith, to break mountains, to divide the seas, to dry up waters, to turn them out of their course;“To put at defiance the armies of nations, to divide the earth, to break every band, to stand in the presence of God; to do all things according to his will, according to his command, subdue principalities and powers; and this by the will of the Son of God which was from before the foundation of the world.” Indeed, the Melchizedek Priesthood is the very power that Christ himself will use to govern the nations in that day when “the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.” 
	
      Eternal life is the name of the kind of life God lives. It consists, first, of the continuation of the family unit in eternity, and second, of an inheritance of the fulness of the glory of the Father.All those who receive the Melchizedek Priesthood enter into a covenant with the Lord. Each such person solemnly promises:I covenant to receive the priesthood;I covenant to magnify my calling in the priesthood; andI covenant to keep the commandments, to “live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God.” The Lord on his part covenants to give such faithful persons “all that my Father hath,” which is eternal life in the kingdom of God.  see also Then the Lord—to show the binding nature of his promise—swears with an oath that the promised reward shall be obtained.This oath, as it pertained to the Son of God himself, is spoken of in these words: “The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.” And with reference to all others who also receive the Melchizedek Priesthood, the scripture saith: “And all those who are ordained unto this priesthood are made like unto the Son of God, abiding a priest continually.”  That is to say, they will be kings and priests forever; their priesthood will continue to all eternity; they will have eternal life.“They are they who are the church of the Firstborn.“They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things—“They are they who are priests and kings who have received of his fulness, and of his glory;“And are priests of the Most High, after the order of Melchizedek, which was after the order of Enoch, which was after the order of the Only Begotten Son.“Wherefore, as it is written, they are gods, even the sons of God—“Wherefore, all things are theirs, whether life or death, or things present, or things to come, all are theirs and they are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.” 
	
      Our revelations say: “The more sure word of prophecy means a man’s knowing that he is sealed up unto eternal life, by revelation and the spirit of prophecy, through the power of the Holy Priesthood.” During the latter years of his ministry, in particular, the Prophet Joseph Smith pleaded fervently with the Saints to press forward in righteousness until they made their calling and election sure, until they heard the heavenly voice proclaim: “Son, thou shalt be exalted.” ( p. 150.)He himself became the pattern for all such attainment in this dispensation, when the voice from heaven said to him: “I am the Lord thy God, and will be with thee even unto the end of the world, and through all eternity; for verily I seal upon you your exaltation, and prepare a throne for you in the kingdom of my Father, with Abraham your father.” 
	
      This is the crowning blessing of mortality. It is offered by that God who is no respecter of persons to all the faithful in his kingdom.“Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am.” “And again, verily I say unto you that it is your privilege, and a promise I give unto you that have been ordained unto this ministry”—he is speaking now to those who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood—“that inasmuch as you strip yourselves from jealousies and fears, and humble yourselves before me, for ye are not sufficiently humble, the veil shall be rent and you shall see me and know that I am—not with the carnal neither natural mind, but with the spiritual.“For no man has seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God.“Neither can any natural man abide the presence of God, neither after the carnal mind.“Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, continue in patience until ye are perfected.” These, then, are  the priesthood which the saints in ancient days called after Melchizedek to avoid the too frequent repetition of the name of Deity.In this connection, these words from holy writ are appropriate:“Now Melchizedek was a man of faith, who wrought righteousness; and when a child he feared God, and stopped the mouths of lions, and quenched the violence of fire.“And thus, having been approved of God, he was ordained an high priest after the order of the covenant which God made with Enoch,“It being after the order of the Son of God; which order came, not by man, nor the will of man; neither by father nor mother; neither by beginning of days nor end of years; but of God;“And it was delivered unto men by the calling of his own voice, according to his own will, unto as many as believed on his name. …“And now, Melchizedek was a priest of this order; therefore he obtained peace in Salem, and was called the Prince of peace.“And his people wrought righteousness, and obtained heaven, and sought for the city of Enoch which God had before taken, separating it from the earth, having reserved it unto the latter days, or the end of the world;“And hath said, and sworn with an oath, that the heavens and the earth should come together; and the sons of God should be tried so as by fire.“And this Melchizedek, having thus established righteousness, was called the king of heaven by his people, or, in other words, the King of peace.“And he lifted up his voice, and he blessed Abram. …“And it came to pass, that God blessed Abram, and gave unto him riches, and honor, and lands for an everlasting possession; according to the covenant which he had made, and according to the blessing wherewith Melchizedek had blessed him.” Now, my brethren, this is the priesthood which we hold. It will bless us as it blessed Melchizedek and Abraham. The priesthood of Almighty God is here. The doctrines which we teach are true, and by obedience to them we can enjoy the words of eternal life here and now and be inheritors of immortal glory hereafter.I know, and you know, that as the heavens are above the earth, so are these truths of which we speak above all the ways of the world and all the honors which men can confer.God grant that we may keep the commandments and be inheritors of all that a gracious Lord promises his people. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.With the singing “Shall the Youth of Zion Falter?” still ringing in our ears, and with these lovely young women as a background, I pray for the inspiration of heaven as I direct my brief remarks to the youth of the Church—the “rising generation,” as the Book of Mormon calls them.I want to talk to you, the young people of the Church, frankly and honestly. I presume you know that we love you. As leaders of the Church, there isn’t anything in this world we wouldn’t do that’s right for you. We have great confidence in you. You are not just ordinary young men and young women. You are choice spirits, many of you having been held back in reserve for almost 6,000 years to come forth in this day, at this time, when the temptations, responsibilities, and opportunities are the very greatest.God loves you as He loves each and every one of His children, and His desire and purpose and glory is to have you return to Him pure and undefiled, having proven yourselves worthy of an eternity of joy in His presence.Your Father in heaven is mindful of you. He has given you commandments to guide you, to discipline you. He has also given you your agency—freedom of choice—“to see if [you] will do all things whatsoever [He] shall command.”  His kingdom here on earth is well organized, and your leaders are dedicated to helping you. May you know that you have our constant love, our concern, and prayers.Satan is also mindful of you. He is committed to your destruction. He does not discipline you with commandments, but offers instead a freedom to “do your own thing”—the freedom to smoke, to drink, to misuse drugs or rebel against the counsel and commandments of God and His servants. Satan knows that you are young, at the peak of physical vigor, excited by the world, and consumed by new emotions.Satan knows that youth is the springtime of life when all things are new and young people are most vulnerable. Youth is the spirit of adventure and awakening. It is a time of physical emerging when the body attains the vigor and good health that may ignore the caution of temperance. Youth is a period of timelessness when the horizons of age seem too distant to be noticed. Thus, the  generation forgets that the present will soon be the past, which one will look back upon either with sorrow and regret or joy and cherished experiences. Satan’s program is “play now and pay later.” He seeks for all to be miserable like unto himself. The Lord’s program is happiness now and joy forever through gospel living. As one of His servants—out of the love of my heart for the youth of Zion—I offer this counsel for your happiness now:First, I counsel you to live a morally clean life. The prophet Alma declared—and truer words were never spoken—“Wickedness never was happiness.” You cannot do wrong and feel right. It is impossible! Years of happiness can be lost in the foolish gratification of a momentary desire for pleasure. Satan would have you believe that happiness comes only as you surrender to his enticements, but one only needs to look at the shattered lives of those who violate God’s laws to know why Satan is called the Father of Lies.Consider this letter from one lovely young woman:“I’m writing this,” she said, “from the depths of a broken heart, in the hope that it may be a warning to other girls never to partake of the bitterness that has come to me. I would give all that I have or ever hope to have if I could go back to those happy, carefree days before the first little taint of sin came upon my heart. I scarcely realized I was slipping into something that could bring such sorrow and ruin into a person’s life.“I wish I could reveal to you the anguish and regret that fill my heart today, the loss of self-respect and the realization that life’s most priceless gift has slipped away from me. I reached out too eagerly for the excitements and thrills of life, and they have turned to ashes in my hands.”This young woman, unfortunately, discovered that the heaviest burden one may have to bear in this life is “the burden of sin.” (Harold B. Lee, “Stand Ye in Holy Places,” July 1973, p. 122.)You can avoid that burden and all of the attending heartaches if you will but heed the standards laid down for you through the teaching of the Lord’s servants. One of the standards on which your happiness is based, now and in your future, is moral purity.The world would tell you that this standard is old-fashioned and out of date. The world would have you accept a so-called  which is nothing more than immorality. Our living prophet has reaffirmed that the eternal standard of chastity has not changed. Here are his words:“The world may have its norm; the Church has a different one. … The world may countenance premarital sex experiences, but the Lord and His church condemn in no uncertain terms any and every sex relationship outside of marriage, and even indecent and uncontrolled ones within marriage. And so, though many self-styled authorities justify these practices as a normal release, the Church condemns them. … Such unholy practices were condemned by ancient prophets and are today condemned by the Church.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 175.)This standard means keeping yourselves clean in body and mind. The Church has no double standard of morality. The moral code of heaven for both men and women is complete chastity before marriage and full fidelity after marriage.For you young men and women not yet married, this uniform standard for men and women has been clearly defined by President Kimball:“Among the most common sexual sins our young people commit are necking and petting. Not only do these improper relations often lead to fornication, pregnancy, and abortions—all ugly sins—but in and of themselves they are pernicious evils, and it is often difficult for youth to distinguish where one ends and another begins. They awaken lust and stir evil thoughts and sex desires. They are but parts of the whole family of related sins and indiscretions.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Bookcraft, 1969, p. 65.)In the church and kingdom of God, chastity will never be out of date, regardless of what the world may do or say. So we say to you, young men and women—maintain your self-respect. Do not engage in intimacies that bring heartache and sorrow. You cannot build happy lives on immorality. “The first condition of happiness,” said President David O. McKay, “is a clear conscience.” ( Salt Lake City: The Improvement Era, 1953, p. 498.)Second, I counsel you to stay close to your parents. There are some things which come only with mature adulthood, and one of these is wisdom. Young people, you need the wisdom of age, just as some of us older ones need your enthusiasm for life.A young man, a few months out of college, got a job with an insurance company. He was full of enthusiasm and vigor—determined to sell insurance to all he met, including the farmers. He walked into a farmyard one lovely autumn morning and noticed an old farmer across the yard, somewhat stooped and bent, looking out over his field of grain. The salesman briskly walked over to the farmer and said, “Look up my good man, there’s much to live for.”The elderly farmer straightened up the best he could and replied, “Young man, you see that beautiful field of wheat?” The salesman acknowledged that indeed it was beautiful. “Do you notice that some of the heads are bent over?”“Yes,” said the youth, “that’s right, they are.”The old farmer said, “Those are the ones with the grain in them.”Your parents may become somewhat stooped and bent caring for you and your brothers and sisters. But just remember, those are the ones with the grain in them. Yes, young people, your parents, with their maturity of years and experience you have not had, can provide wisdom, knowledge, and blessings to help you over life’s pitfalls. You may find, as one young man did, that life’s sweetest experiences come when you go to Mom and Dad for help.Some time ago, a young man came to my office requesting a blessing. He was about eighteen years of age and had some problems. There were no serious moral problems, but he was mixed up in his thinking and worried. He requested a blessing.I said to him, “Have you ever asked your father to give you a blessing? Your father is a member of the Church, I assume?”He said, “Yes, he is an elder, a rather inactive elder.”When I asked, “Do you love your father?” he replied, “Yes, Brother Benson, he is a good man. I love him.” He then said, “He doesn’t attend to his priesthood duties as he should. He doesn’t go to church regularly, I don’t know that he is a tithe payer, but he is a good man, a good provider, a kind man.”I said, “How would you like to talk to him at an opportune time and ask him if he would be willing to give you a father’s blessing?”“Oh,” he said, “I think that would frighten him.”I then said, “Are you willing to try it? I will be praying for you.”He said, “All right; on that basis, I will.”A few days later he came back. He said, “Brother Benson, that’s the sweetest thing that has happened in our family.” He could hardly control his feelings as he told me what had happened. He said, “When the opportunity was right, I mentioned it to Father, and he replied, ‘Son, do you really want me to give you a blessing?’ I told him, ‘Yes, Dad, I would like you to.’” Then he said, “Brother Benson, he gave me one of the most beautiful blessings you could ever ask for. Mother sat there crying all during the blessing. When he got through there was a bond of appreciation and gratitude and love between us that we have never had in our home.”Draw close to Dad and Mom. When family prayer and home evening are suggested, don’t pull away. Join in and make it real. Do your part to develop real family unity and family solidarity. In such homes there is no generation gap. This is another tool of the adversary—to drive children and parents apart. Yes, keep close to Dad and Mom.Third, I counsel you, in the words of Jesus Christ, to “watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat.” If you will earnestly seek guidance from your Heavenly Father, morning and evening, you will be given the strength to shun any temptation. President Heber J. Grant gave this timeless promise to the youth of the Church:“I have little or no fear for the boy or the girl, the young man or the young woman, who  I am sure that when temptation comes they will have the strength to overcome it by the inspiration that shall be given to them. Supplicating the Lord for the guidance of His Spirit places around us a safeguard, and if we earnestly and honestly seek the guidance of the Spirit of the Lord, I can assure you that we will receive it.” ( Salt Lake City: The Improvement Era, 1969, p. 26; italics added.)When you pray—when you talk to your Heavenly Father—do you really talk out your problems with Him? Do you let Him know your feelings, your doubts, your insecurities, your joys, your deepest desires—or is prayer merely an habitual expression with the same words and phrases? Do you ponder what you really mean to say? Do you take time to listen to the promptings of the Spirit? Answers to prayer come most often by a still voice and are discerned by our deepest, innermost  I tell you that you can know the will of God concerning yourselves if you will take the time to pray and to listen.Yes, beloved youth, you will have your trials and temptations through which you must pass, but there are great moments of eternity which lie ahead. You have our love and our confidence. We pray that you will be prepared for the reins of leadership. We say to you, “Arise and shine forth”  and be a light unto the world, a standard to others. You can live in the world and not partake of the sins of the world. You can live life joyously, beautifully, unmarred by the ugliness of sin. This is our confidence in you.I pray that you—the young and rising generation—will keep your bodies and minds clean, free from the contaminations of the world, that you will be fit and pure vessels to bear off the kingdom of God triumphant in preparation for the second coming of our Savior. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.