Of all of life’s memorable experiences, there are few to compare with the soul-stirring feeling we have as we hear a missionary express his joy and love for the Lord as he tells of bringing someone to the waters of baptism.President Kimball has requested that every worthy young man prepare himself to go on a mission. There still are vast areas of the world living in spiritual darkness and waiting for the true word of God. Even though we as a Church point with pride at the large number of missionaries serving in the world, many more missionaries are needed.A Church family in a city or a town anywhere in the world will bring another family into the Church. Soon missionaries are involved. A small branch develops, then wards and a stake. The process goes on and on in a miraculous way with local Saints and missionaries bringing the good tidings and new hope to people everywhere. The Church missionary force will continue to grow. The 25,000 young men now serving will become 35,000, then 50,000. No hand can stop the work.But it is sad and disappointing to see the names of young men in many wards not able to take advantage of the divine direction: “Send forth the elders of my church unto the nations; … the islands of the sea; … unto foreign lands; call upon all nations.”  Some of our choice young men have been caught up in the ways of a permissive society.My remarks this morning are directed to the young women of the Church, particularly those who are dating our young men. I desire to be appropriate and correct in what I say, but because of necessity and the urgency concerning this matter, I must be very direct and candid.Some young men cannot go on missions because they are not worthy.I challenge the young women of the Church who associate with and date our young priesthood bearers to become real guardians of their morality. You can. You must. Many of you are. Please do not underestimate your role. I am aware that the total responsibility is not yours. However, on a date you can set the proper atmosphere to encourage your companion to honor the commandments of God. In fact, you have the opportunity to emphasize the Mormon ideals of womanhood in all their honor and glory. I know the Lord expects it to be so.You young ladies have a profound influence on young, masculine behavior. Young men wear clothes they think you like. Their hair will be cut to please you. You can control how fast they drive their cars if you want. They will dress as grubby as you like. You need not dress in the extreme fashions of the world. Are you aware that fashions and styles are promoted because someone has a product to sell? The rightness or appropriateness or effect on a youthful society does not matter as long as it sells. But the day will come when the world will follow the ways of the Church. Its influence will be as though flowing from the stars to affect the actions of men. Your influence with young men is important. You encourage Church standards and dress and conduct.Interviews with some prospective missionaries regretfully indicate that some actions involving young women are most disappointing. Some are even ugly and are far, far different from what is expected of you. The Savior knew so well our weaknesses. He warned: “Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit … is willing, but the flesh is weak.” Young women, lift the tenor of your association with our young men now preparing to be worthy so their bishops will be impressed to call them on missions. The young man you are with in a car or at home is needed in the Lord’s work. Hundreds, even thousands more like him are needed—prepared in the Lord’s way.The young men you are dating are in training for missions and hold the priesthood. Bishops have found these young men worthy. Hands have been placed upon their heads. They have received the priesthood of God. Just think. The Lord has given them authority to preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize—a divine commission to act for and in behalf of the Lord Himself. The young man you may be with probably is a priest. He wants to be worthy to receive the higher priesthood and, if worthy, to someday have authority and keys of spiritual blessings. He is not “just another young man.” He is a very special young man. He is in training. He is going on a mission. You can be a great blessing to him. You, a young lady he admires, can help him avoid serious pitfalls.Young men—maturing, learning, and forming habits—have ideals and special persons they admire. You may be such a person. In a matter of months these young men will become missionaries and will be blessed so as to be able to teach investigators by the Spirit. The Lord said, “And the Spirit shall be given … by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach.”  Our missionaries teach and testify by the Spirit. But they must be in tune with the Lord. Hoping for the Spirit is not enough. Praying is not enough. Missionaries must do what the Lord requires: live the commandments, be clean, be wholesome in deed and thoughts. “The Lord hath said he dwelleth not in unholy temples.” “Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place?“He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart.”  The Psalmist is teaching the necessity of clean actions that comply with divine law—a pure heart, pure thoughts, a desire to live in harmony with the Lord and to love Him.While serving as a mission president I asked a missionary who was having difficulty developing the spirit of his calling to go for a drive. We drove far up into the hills. No one was near. After several hours he finally revealed the problem he had been hiding and his feeling of guilt. He was ashamed of what he had done. I listened. We talked it out. Then we watched a missionary virtually come to life with the spirit of his calling.Most missionary concerns are worthiness concerns, the product of their dating and social activities. The Lord’s instruction to “Go ye into all the world, and preach … to every creature”  involves us all—all who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ. All members of His Church—the old, the young—everyone is involved. Young men at an appropriate age are called by the prophet to leave home and go out in the world. Others serve and spread the gospel at home. Some give financial support. But every member is obligated to be part of the Lord’s plan to spread and share the gospel. You young women have a vital role in this preparation and pretraining of our young men. If you live worthily and develop a strong, positive self-image of your divine role of joint-inheritor of the fulness of all things, you will be a blessing to the young men who may come under your influence.In an article in the October 1977  entitled “Treat Everyone As If He Were a Mormon” (pp. 42–43), a group of young people talk about their sense of duty, their excitement, and their ideas concerning sharing the gospel. One of the questions directed to the young ladies was, “Girls, what’s your obligation?”Wanda replied: “Every member is supposed to be a missionary. I have lots of friends who have questions about the Church, and I can probably answer many of them. We should try to do all we can.”Beverly replied: “I think we can also help by encouraging the boys to go on missions. … I think we can encourage them … in the little things that we do. … It is in the … example that we set for them, that we can help the most.”You young ladies must set the proper example. Help our young men stay morally clean that they might be worthy and spiritually prepared to serve the Lord. You young women also have a duty to serve the Lord, to honor womanhood according to the Church beliefs and not the world’s. One of your most important obligations is to be and remain clean and pure. When you are clean and pure, the young men you date will be clean and pure. If a young man makes inappropriate advances, you have a sacred obligation to say, “No. I do not do that. Please don’t ask me or try to entice me to submit to conduct that is offensive to the Lord.”You, a daughter of Zion, can be a shining light as you set the right example. Refrain from early dating or going steady. Avoid at all cost the familiarity trap. Instead of spending time in a lovers’ lane, why not develop your minds and your personalities? You both have talents to develop and to share.Read good books. Listen to good music. Study and discuss the blessings contained in the Word of Wisdom.Read the scriptures—in them  the greatest story ever told.Young couples on dates know in advance what “too much time together” or “too late at night” can lead to. Avoid such dangers. There is a lurking power of emotion that can override intellect. Moral strength is a great virtue developed through desire and self-discipline.Nearly 200 years ago the British statesman Edmund Burke wrote: “Tell me what are the prevailing sentiments that occupy the minds of your young men, and I will tell you what is to be the character of the next generation.” (In Emerson Roy West,  Bookcraft, 1948, p. 427.)Somehow, my dear young friends, we will stem the tide of untruth and immorality that is sweeping the earth. It will be accomplished by you, the youth of the Church, through your faith and strength. Don’t be discouraged at seemingly overwhelming odds in your desire to live and to help others live God’s commandments. At times it may seem like David trying to fight Goliath. But remember, David did win.As we reflect on life’s real goal, what should our desire be? The Lord, in a rather personal revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1829 to John Whitmer, said, “The thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me.” President Kimball has asked not only for more missionaries but that they arrive in the field better prepared and with a desire to go and serve. The Lord said, “If ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work.” Missionaries are expected to serve “with all [their] heart[s], might, mind[s] and strength.”  Wouldn’t it be a great source of satisfaction to you young women to know that you have helped a young man visualize the majesty of his call and have encouraged him to become an outstanding modern missionary. Many of our young men are. We need them all to be that kind of missionary. The Lord has said, “The field is … already to harvest; … he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, … bringeth salvation to his soul.”  President Vaughn Featherstone of the Texas San Antonio Mission remarked: “Let’s not use a sickle. Let’s use a combine.”President Kimball has said, “If there were no converts the Church would shrivel and die.” (“It Becometh Every Man,” Oct. 1977, p. 3.) You young women have a vital role in converting the world to the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can encourage, influence, and even shield a young man at a critical time in his life. The Lord holds to this promise: “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard … the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.”  You demonstrate your love for the Lord when you help a young man remain worthy and prepared to serve the Lord.In Maxwell Anderson’s play about the youthful Joan of Arc, she says, “Every woman gives her life for what she believes. Sometimes people believe in little or nothing, nevertheless, they give up their lives to that little or nothing. One life is all we have, and we live it as we believe in living it, and then it’s gone. But to surrender what you are, and live without belief—that’s more terrible than dying—more terrible than dying young.” (Maxwell Anderson, “Joan of Lorraine,” New York: Dramatists’ Play Service, 1945, act 2, scene 4.)Let there radiate from you young women a spirit and influence that will have the power to cause “a mighty change”  when needed in the hearts of our young men. May there come forth through your efforts generations of young men in the Church who have spiritually been born of God, who reflect his Spirit in their countenances. You possess a divine key given by the Creator to lock or unlock, destroy or bless, that can make young men become as great as they ought to be.God’s work cannot fail. His work and purpose will succeed. In the end righteousness must and will prevail. I challenge you, the young women of the Church, to fulfill your duty to assist in presenting to President Kimball and the Lord young men who are worthy to testify of Christ and the restoration of His gospel. To this truth I testify in the holy name of Jesus Christ. Amen.The last time I spoke from this pulpit I explained a special need to help local missionaries from some of the missions in South America. In most of these countries the annual income averages less than 10 percent of what it is here. I explained that these young people had already sacrificed much, and that they would need additional financial help from those of us who could easily share. I didn’t really appeal for funds. I outlined a need.This is my first opportunity to express thanks to so many for helping these missionaries—even without being asked! I can’t imagine what would have happened if we had actually asked for help! One lady wrote, “You so carefully avoided asking for funds that you also avoided telling us where to send them.” I should repent of that. I’m really hesitant—but you all know where Church headquarters are!Some letters came to me personally. They are as heartwarming as the stories of need. One lady sent a generous first monthly check and had her niece write: “Some question my ability to help so much on my small income. But I want to do my part; and if I do, the Lord will take care of me.” She was ninety-nine, disabled, and blind.A nickel and four pennies were taped to a card over the printed signature of a five-year-old whose mother wrote his message: “I love Heavenly Father. I’m giving part of my allowance to a missionary.”A youngster, fifteen, said, “I didn’t think two dollars would matter much. But my dad said if everyone in the Church sent two dollars, it would be over six million—and that’s not too bad!”Another wrote: “As a father of eight sons, I know how disappointing it would be for me if any of my sons was unable to serve a mission because of lack of finances. Enclosed is some help.”An elderly couple, remembering their temple vows, said: “We have sent seven of our own children. We know it takes more money now than then.”A mother wrote, “After October conference, in family council, we decided to  some money not to spend it for Christmas, but to send it to missionaries. The boys, ages five and six, gathered cans for refunds, stacked wood, raked leaves, vacuumed the car, and swept the garage. Two-year-old Becky stacked wood and set the table. Mom gave piano lessons. Daddy cracked his piggy bank of eight years. One boy lost a tooth, and Daddy paid him a quarter for it. He promptly loosened and removed two more for an additional fifty cents! We are sending our total earnings ($81.85). It’s been a pleasure.”The shortest letter read, “Per your instructions last general conference. Sincerely. …”Aside from some concern about possible toothless youngsters, I commend you all. Thank you, brothers and sisters.Gratefully, the need still exists. In fact, it’s growing daily. Last year we experienced a 37 percent increase in the number of local missionaries serving.We have another and different need in the fast-developing areas, as well as in most of the missions. Last year more than 140,000 converts joined the Church. With so many converts the little branches grow rapidly. New leaders are called to positions of service early. They are able but inexperienced in Church procedures and administration. These new leaders, as well as older ones, need to be taught how to organize the Church correctly and cause it to function properly. Who is available to teach these principles? Regional Representatives? Yes. Their visits are limited, however, and they cover wide areas. Mission presidents? Yes, but they are greatly burdened with large and ofttimes difficult areas to cover; and in reality, they have little time in which to do it. Mature couples with a background of Church service? Yes. But where do we get them? Why, the Church is full of them!Would you like to serve? Such a call will delay your retirement, take you off the golf course, and take you away from your mobile home. It will place you face to face with real challenges that require deep spirituality, earnest prayer, and the exercise of great faith. If you would like to serve, contact your priesthood leaders to see if you are worthy and able. They are the ones who determine your worthiness to receive a missionary call from the Prophet. Our priesthood leaders will be very careful about whom they recommend. They will carefully review all information submitted and give special attention to your medical record to see if there are any physical or emotional problems that would interfere with full-time missionary work.Your children must be grown and married. Good health is essential. In spite of your desire and means to go, it may not be possible due to poor health. I must be very frank about this matter and caution you: Missionary work is not a sentimental journey. While the work will be accommodated somewhat to your needs, it will nevertheless be  You will miss births, deaths, weddings, and other family events. You will live in less comfort than you are accustomed to. It will be the most challenging, disappointing, discouraging, and difficult time of your life.Nevertheless, I have heard the testimonies of couples who are presently serving; and in spite of the inconveniences, I can promise you one thing: supreme joy—the joy that comes from diligent labor and selfless service. Ammon knew this kind of joy. In the Book of Mormon we read: “And this is the account of Ammon and his brethren, their journeyings in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land, their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehensible joy.”  You, too, may experience a joy and exultation known in no other way.Most people who need your help speak another language. You will be enabled to learn a new language, however, through a system adapted to your situation.The nature of your service will not be exactly like the young missionaries. The emphasis now is for experienced couples to teach leadership principles (which you already know) to inexperienced leaders. Normally you will not preside in a branch or district, but you will help those who do to improve their abilities and to cause the Church to function properly. You will also teach principles of personal and family preparedness. You might work as a specialist in health, agriculture, or vocational services. You will share the gospel through proselyting as well. The length of service is usually eighteen months. However, you may serve a six- or twelve-month mission.The areas where you are needed vary sufficiently to meet the needs of most couples. It will require $400 to $500 per month. In many cases this cost provides the opportunity for children to now help their parents fill  missions.Perhaps some of you couples listening today may look at one another and say, “Dear, why shouldn’t we see if we qualify?” Some of you who desire to serve may not be members of the Church. We would welcome you, too. There are, however, one or two preliminary steps you need to take prior to being recommended. If you should see our young missionaries about, or if you know members of the Church, please ask about their message. It will open the door to marvelous opportunities in the service of the Master, as well as open the door to eternal life for you.Our Savior taught that service saves: “For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo,  that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that  perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to  soul.”  italics added.)“And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be  joy with  in the kingdom of my Father!“And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be  joy if you should bring many souls unto me!”  italics added.)I know that we are in the service of the Master. I know that Jesus is the Christ, that he lives and directs his work through his living prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball. To this I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.