I have chosen as my text for these remarks, “Trust in the Lord.”I hope that what I say will be appropriate for all priesthood bearers. I have particularly in mind, however, the Aaronic Priesthood youth. I hope that every one of you tonight can remember when this is over that what I talked about was trust in the Lord, and that you will have your determination to trust in him strengthened.The command to trust in the Lord is oft repeated by the Lord Himself.Ten months before the Church was organized, He said to Hyrum Smith, through his brother, the Prophet:“I am the light which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. …“Put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good—yea to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit …“Which shall fill your soul with joy.” Two years later, speaking of Bishop Newel K. Whitney, He said:“Let him trust in me and he shall not be confounded: and a hair of his head shall not fall to the ground unnoticed.” In 1841 when William Law was concerned about the health of his children because of the sickness among the people at Nauvoo, the Lord said:“Let my servant William put his trust in me, and cease to fear concerning his family, because of the sickness of the land. If ye love me, keep my commandments; and the sickness of the land shall redound to your glory.” Comforting the people who had been driven into the wilderness by the wicked King Noah, Alma explained to them that although the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; [and although] he trieth their patience and their faith [,] nevertheless—whosoever putteth his trust in him the same shall be lifted up at the last day.” One of the most dramatic evidences recorded in the scriptures that trusting in the Lord brings rewards was the vanquishing of the giant Goliath by young David. His implicit trust enabled him to accomplish this great feat.You will remember that the Philistines and Israel were at war. “The Philistines gathered together their armies to battle … on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.“And there went out a champion [from] the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, … whose height was six cubits and a span”—that was about nine feet six inches.“And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail” weighing about one hundred twenty-six pounds. “In addition, he carried a shield of brass on his back, a heavy plate of metal armor on his legs and a helmet of brass on his head. In his hand he carried a spear with a shaft ‘like a weaver’s beam’ tipped with an iron, battering-ram type of head weighing in excess of 18 pounds.” (W. Cleon Skousen,  Bookcraft, 1966, p. 19.)This bully cried to the armies of Saul, “Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.“If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.“And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.”The record says that “when Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.”This challenge Goliath made morning and evening for forty days.“And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.” While this was going on, young David reached the camp with a message from his father for his elder brothers who were serving in King Saul’s army. When he heard Goliath’s challenge, he “spake to the men that stood by him, saying, … Who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?”When King Saul heard about what David had said, he sent for him.“And David said to Saul, Let no man’s heart fail because of him; thy servant [speaking of himself] will go and fight with this Philistine.“And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.“And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father’s sheep, [that is, ‘I kept my father’s sheep’], and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:“And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.“[I] slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God.“David said moreover, The Lord”—now we come to the trust that this boy had in the Lord—“The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the Lord be with thee.” Saul then armed David with his own armor. But it was too heavy for David, for he hadn’t been used to wearing armor, so he took it off.“And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd’s bag which he had, … and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.“And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.“And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he” was disgusted—the record says “he disdained him: for he was but a youth.“And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David” in the name of all the heathen gods he knew.“And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts of the field.“Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.“This day,” continued David, “will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand; and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.“And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is the Lord’s, and he will give you into our hands.“And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David”—that is, he hurried and ran“that David hasted, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.“And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead,”just below his helmet—“that the stone sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.”That was a very new experience for the Philistine. Nothing like that had ever entered into his head before.“So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him.” Now, the reason David accomplished this great feat was that he trusted in and was led by the Lord.When that happened, the Philistines all panicked, and there was a great victory that day for the armies of Israel.Now here’s another illustration from the scriptures. This is from the Book of Mormon, and it is another remarkable demonstration of how the Lord sustains those who put their trust in Him.This is the report which Helaman gave to his leader, Moroni, of his so-called 2,000 sons. These were young men who were the sons of the Ammonites (they were converted Lamanites); their fathers had taken an oath that they would not go to war again, but these boys were not old enough to take the oath and so they were not bound by it. And they volunteered to help the Nephites against the invasion of the Lamanites.When the Nephite army was threatened with overwhelming odds by the Lamanites, Helaman said to these men, “What say ye, my sons, will ye go against them to battle?”And they answered, “Behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth. …“Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them.“And they rehearsed … the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it. …“And now it came to pass,” continued Helaman in his report to Moroni, “that we … did surround the Lamanites, and did slay them; yea, insomuch that they were compelled to deliver up their weapons of war and also themselves as prisoners of war.“And now … when they had surrendered themselves up unto us, behold, I numbered those young men who had fought with me, … [and] to my great joy, there had not one soul of them fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the strength of God; … never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength.” Following a later battle, Helaman continued in his report:“My little band … [was] firm before the Lamanites, … and they did obey and observe to perform every word of command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it was done unto them. …“And it came to pass that there were two hundred, out of my two thousand and sixty, who had fainted because of the loss of blood; nevertheless, according to the goodness of God, and to our great astonishment, and also the foes of our whole army, there was not one soul of them who did perish. …“And now, their preservation was astonishing to our whole army, yea, that they should be spared while there was a thousand of our brethren who were slain. And we do justly ascribe it to the miraculous power of God.” Why? “Because of their exceeding faith in that which they had been taught to believe—that there was a just God, and whosoever did not doubt, that they should be preserved by his marvelous power.“Now this was the faith of these of whom I have spoken; they are young, and their minds are firm, and they do put their trust in God continually.” President Heber J. Grant tells of a different type of reward that comes from trusting in the Lord. When he was a young man, he heard his bishop in a fast meeting, which was then held on Thursdays (in the early days, we held our fast meetings on Thursdays), make a strong appeal for donations. At that time President Grant had $50 in his pocket which he intended to deposit in the bank. But he was so impressed by his bishop’s appeal that he tendered the whole $50 to the bishop. The bishop took $5 and handed him back $45, stating that $5 was his full share. Then President Grant replied, “Bishop Wooley, by what right do you rob me of putting the Lord in my debt? Didn’t you preach here today that the Lord rewards fourfold? My mother is a widow and she needs two hundred dollars.”“My boy,” queried the bishop, “do you believe that if I take this other forty-five dollars you will get your two hundred dollars quicker?”“Certainly,” replied President Grant.Now here was an expression of trust in the Lord which the bishop could not withstand. He took the remaining $45.President Grant testified that on his way back to work, “an idea popped” into his head, acting upon which he made $218.50. Speaking on this incident years later, he said, “Someone will say that it would have happened anyway.“I do not think it would have happened. I do not think I would have got the idea.“I am a firm believer that the Lord opens up the windows of heaven when we do our duty financially and pours out blessings upon us of a spiritual nature, which are of far greater value than temporal things. But I believe He also gives us blessings of a temporal nature.” ( 42:457.)In the mission presidents’ seminar last June, Elder Thomas S. Monson told of the great faith and trust in the Lord of Randall Ellsworth, a missionary who, in Brother Monson’s words, “was crushed under that devastating earthquake in Guatemala, pinned for, I think, twelve hours. Found himself totally paralyzed from the waist down. Kidney functions, not present. No hope to ever walk again. …“He was flown to … Maryland and … interviewed in the hospital by a television reporter. The television reporter said to him, ‘The doctors say you will not walk again. What do you think, Elder Ellsworth?’ He said, ‘I’ll not only walk again, but I have a call from a prophet to serve a mission in Guatemala, and I shall go back to Guatemala and finish that mission. ’ …“He exercised twice the [requirement] outlined by the doctors. He exerted his faith. He received a blessing from the priesthood and his recovery was miraculous. It astounded the physicians and the specialists. He began to be able to stand on his feet. Then he could walk with crutches, and then the doctors said to him, ‘You may return to the mission field if the Church will permit you to go.’ He went. We sent him to Guatemala. He returned to the land to which he had been called, to the people whom he dearly loved.“While there he was walking, proselyting a full schedule with a cane in each hand. [His mission president] looked at him and said, ‘Elder Ellsworth, with the faith that you have, why don’t you throw those canes away and walk?’ And Elder Ellsworth said, ‘If you have that kind of faith in me [take the canes].’” He put down the canes and has never used them since. (Mission Presidents’ Training Seminar, June 1977, tape recording, Missionary Department.)Brethren, you young men particularly, I bear to you my testimony that I know that the Lord rewards those who put their trust in Him. May we learn that when we’re young, and practice it through our lives so that we can testify as these experiences testify, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.I’m honored to follow Bruce McConkie, whom I have loved and admired for many years.As I have met some of the wonderful chaplains who represent us across the earth, who are in for conference, I have been reminded of some wonderful memories. One of them made me smile as I recalled one of our brethren who had finished his tour in Vietnam and was leaving as we arrived in Saigon. He said, “I am leaving this place with mixed feelings—joy and gladness.” Brethren, we think of you with that kind of mixed feelings, knowing your great contributions across the earth.I smiled again today as I thought about an afternoon just a little while ago at the National Boy Scout Jamboree when, sloshing through the rain, soaked myself, I saw a youngster sliding down a mud bank into a mud puddle. He was as wet and muddy as anyone could get. I said to him, “Son, you don’t look too unhappy with the rain.”He said. “No, sir.”I said, “You don’t wish you were home, then?”“No, sir, they would never let me do this at home!”It is about two such boys and two good men that I’d like to talk tonight, for they form the central theme of my remarks.The boys are special young men, like all of you and the men are choice leaders in church and community. I met one of these fathers and his five-year old son just a few days ago. The father told me of a recent conversation with his boy in which he explained that elections are coming soon and that he is being urged to run again for the office of mayor. “Shall I run for mayor?” he said.“Uh-uh,” said the lad.“Well,” said the father, “some church leaders are coming to our stake next week and they may ask me to continue to serve as stake president. Shall I say yes if they ask me?”“Uh-uh,” said the boy.“What do you want me to do?” the father laughed.His son said, “I just want a regular dad.”The other story was equally interesting and significant to me. This family has a tradition of educational accomplishment and the father was shaken a bit when his wife brought him their high school son’s report card with his first  on it. Dad brooded over the matter and when the son came home invited him into the study, sternly confronted him with the card, and said, “Son, what is this I see on your report card?”“Well, Dad,” replied the boy, “I  you see the five s.”We can all understand that it may be difficult for a boy to realize that his father can be a regular dad and do other important things too. And it may be difficult on occasion for men to see the s on the report card when there is a  there. So let me speak a few words tonight to men who once were boys and to boys who are fast becoming men. Men remember being boys, but boys, I’m sure, have a harder time imagining how it will be to be a man. But you boys will be men, you know—some kind of men—and it is very important to you and all whom your life will touch that you be regular boys in every wonderful sense of the term, so you can be regular men.Men who are trying to do a number of important things realize that none of our involvements matters much—and accomplishing anything else will not bring much satisfaction—if we have not done all we should at home.As to the five s and the  all of us must be reminded that while perfection is a worthy goal and while good grades are important, yet individuals have different capacities and gifts, and imperfection is with all of us, and school grades that represent honest and earnest effort should be acceptable. What really matters, after all, is what kind of people we are. The problems of the world are at root all human problems, and the opportunities in the world are at root all human opportunities. Those who help solve the problems and make the most of the opportunities are those whose priorities are straight, who are mature and strong in character.And there is another consideration we must think of as we talk of fathers and sons. Many boys grow up without a father. My own dad died when I was a little boy, so I am especially aware that many boys have no father at all, or maybe a father who doesn’t provide the best example and instruction he could. So in addition to being good fathers to our own sons, true men must reach out to show concern for other boys also. And even boys blessed with wonderful mothers need men to look up to, to love and follow. They need men to teach them how to be men or they may learn, as so many do, from imitation men who themselves have it all wrong, who may have perverse ideas, who think that manhood rests in muscles or money, or crime or crudity, or cards or conquests. I cannot prescribe how many meetings and activities we individually should go to of those that are available, but it should be our first priority to take whatever time it takes in order to keep faith with our families and to be a friend to a boy or girl who needs some help.Use your imaginations with me for a moment. Imagine that I am drawing a star at one end of a chalkboard. That star represents a boy named Allen. I will draw a tight circle around the star representing Allen’s good family, including a mother who loves him very much and a dad who talks to him and listens to him and spends quality time with him.On the other end of the chalkboard I will draw another star representing Dick. Dick is not so fortunate. He doesn’t have a family like Al’s. If he gets any help, it will have to be from outside his home.Now draw some lines radiating like spokes in a wheel, from the circle of Allen’s family and from the star representing Dick. Imagine writing on those lines the forces for good that would be available to each of the boys if all of us were doing our jobs well in the programs of the Church: leaders in Primary, Sunday School Young Men, Young Women, Scouting, seminary; Aaronic Priesthood quorum associates and presidencies; quorum advisers, home teachers. Melchizedek Priesthood quorum and Relief Society leaders would be there also, of course, for both Dick and Al, because while the best of families needs all the sustaining support it can get, a boy without a father to guide him is in even greater need of friends, especially those who could help him form an image of what a good man should be.All of these forces for good are coordinated by a strong bishopric who pray humbly, plan wisely, organize carefully, delegate with confidence and efficiently check up, and who will then have time to give the personal attention that young men and young women need and that they say they appreciate more than time spent in more formal associations in which others than the bishopric could as well lead out.What happens when what we have been imagining actually occurs? Let me tell you about one young man that I know personally who got that kind of attention and made an appropriate response.Not long ago and not far away a boy entered a pharmacist’s shop, told the proprietor that he was Bob Brown, son of Mrs. Helen Brown, and inquired if there was any possibility for him to work at the pharmacy to pay for medicine which the store owner had supplied the family but for which he had not yet been paid. Mr. Jones didn’t really need any additional help, but he was so impressed by the unusual conscientiousness of this seventeen-year-old high school boy that he made arrangements for Bob to work at the store part time on Saturdays.That first day of diligent work greatly impressed the businessman, who at the completion of it handed the young man an envelope containing twelve dollars—the agreed-upon wages. The boy took two one-dollar bills from the envelope and asked Mr. Jones to give him change for one of them. Bob put the other dollar bill and twenty cents in his pocket, deposited the eighty cents change in the envelope with the ten-dollar bill, and handed that money to Mr. Jones to apply to the family account, asking if that division of wages was agreeable to the pharmacist. Well, Mr. Jones tried to insist that Bob keep a larger portion of the money. “You’ll need some money for school,” he said, “and besides, I’ve already decided to increase your pay in the future. Why don’t you keep at least half of the twelve dollars?”“No, sir,” said the seventeen-year-old. “Maybe later I could keep a little more, but today I would like to pay the ten dollars and eighty cents on our bill.”At that moment some of Bob’s friends came by and asked him to attend a movie with them. He said he couldn’t, that he had to go home. They continued to tease him to go with them until finally he informed them firmly that he didn’t have any money and couldn’t go with them. Mr. Jones, observing all of this, was about to intervene again to offer money to Bob when one of the boys who had playfully jostled him heard the twenty cents rattle in Bob’s pocket. The bantering began again, because obviously he did have some money. Quietly Bob finally said, “Look, guys, I do have a little money but it isn’t mine; it’s my tithing. Now take off, will you please. I need to get home to see how Mom’s doing.”When Bob and the others had left the store, Mr. Jones went to the telephone and called a physician friend. “Doctor,” he said, “I have been filling your prescriptions for years and have long admired your reputation as a fine surgeon. I’ve also known you are a Mormon bishop, but I have never had any interest in your religion. But I now have one of your boys working for me who is so different that I need to learn about a religion that can produce a young man like that.”Arrangements were made, and the pebble dropped into the life of Mr. Jones by Bob Brown began the extending circles that to this point have gently washed the druggist and members of his family and many others into a warm, loving life as fellow citizens with the Saints in the household of God.Somehow early in his life Bob has mastered principles and developed character that set him apart from most others. He is a regular boy in every choice sense of the description. Can anyone doubt that he will be an equally fine man, a good husband, a regular dad, a concerned leader who will help many others?The Church must and always will continue to place great emphasis on the family, because strong, loyal families are the heart of the society. No nation will ever be stronger than the strength of its homes. No agency or institution can do what the home should do.But we must take people—boys and girls, men and women—where they are, as they are, in the imperfect conditions that so widely exist, in the personal imperfections which are universal. We cannot escape responsibility for our families and others whom we might touch, nor ever cease pulling for them and praying for them and trying to help them. If they make wrong decisions, follow the false programs that many of their peers pursue, still we will love them and suffer with them and work with them and wait for them, even as the father in the Lord’s parable waited for the prodigal who finally came to his senses and headed home: “When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.”  We will watch and pray, even as the Lord himself waits with godly mercy, as He declared through His prophet 2,700 years ago: “And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you.” As you young men (and the wonderful young women you will one day have the privilege to marry) accept your responsibility to strengthen the families you now live in and build sound relationships in the homes where you now live, and as we who are adults seek to help you, all of us are under sacred obligation to reach out in friendship and love for each other and for others, young associates, young brothers and sisters, who do not have in their homes or their lives what so many of us are blessed—or could be blessed—to enjoy.Now let me give you two examples of the application of all of this as I’ve been blessed to observe it.Only a few days ago in Arizona as I was at the pulpit in a conference meeting, a tiny boy came walking down the aisle and up on the stand, perhaps searching for a mother in the choir, maybe just investigating. He wasn’t making any fuss, but he was a wonderful little boy and I couldn’t refrain from pausing a moment and talking with him. I asked him his name and where his mommy and daddy were, and at that point a tall, handsome young man stood in the chapel and advanced to retrieve his child. When the father took his son in his arms in front of the pulpit he kissed him, and I had to swallow a quick lump in my throat. There was no embarrassment, no spanking, no yanking, no anger. There was just the gentle kiss and a loving hug in those big strong arms, and for all of us present a warm, tender, memorable experience from a fortunate youngster and a wise, mature, regular dad.Then, recently I visited the Junior Sunday School meeting in connection with the stake conference where I was assigned. As I entered the room I saw a little girl crying and looking very lost and very, very frightened. Her parents had just deposited her and gone on to the meeting with the big people. In a moment a wonderful young teacher reached her, knelt by her, and put her arms around her and comforted her. The sobs turned to sniffles and peace began to enter a little heart. Just then the second act in the drama began. Another youngster appeared and started to cry also, frightened and feeling alone like the other had. The young teacher, still holding the first little one, reached the second child, and knelt by her and enveloped her in her arms. As she did I heard her say to the first little girl, “Ellen, this young lady is frightened and lonesome. Will you help me make her feel welcome?”The first youngster, her sniffles barely dried, nodded, and the two little children, in the safe haven of the teacher’s arms, supported each other and soon both were quieted. The teacher put three chairs together and sat between the two of them, a hand gently resting on each.When I left that morning I thought I had seen as clearly as I am capable of seeing how the Lord expects us to treat each other, and how wonderful it is to have someone who has lived a little longer and learned to love, to reach out and help us, and then help us help others.In the scriptures is a magnificent sermon in a single line, in which I interpolate an additional word: “For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad [or lass] be not with me?” God bless us, young men and men, to be what God permits us and expects us to be. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.