My beloved brothers and sisters, I ask you to join with me in a prayer that the Lord will he with us and inspire the talks given here this morning, and I hope my remarks will be in harmony with them. I hope that every one of you bishops and branch presidents has a clear understanding of the many resources available to assist you in administering Church welfare services. I urge you to actively use these many resources. I hope we  understand how our consecrations to the Lord—whether in time, work, or money—unite to relieve suffering while  I have been pleased with the explanation of the role of the Lord’s storehouse and how production projects serve to fill it with both “meat and money.”Since we have so far in this meeting concentrated on  we should minister in the Lord’s own way, I shall center my remarks on  we are engaged in this great program. Almost from the beginning of my services in Church welfare I have had the conviction that  If we could always remember the goal toward which we are working, we would never lose our bearings in this great work. What we are about is not new. It is as old as the gospel itself. Whenever the Lord has had a people who would accept and live the gospel, He has established the united order. He established it among the people of Enoch, of whom the record says:“The Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish.“And the Lord called his people Z, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them.” If we will do the things the Lord has asked us to do, we too will continue to be blessed and will grow in righteousness. In the revelation that the Prophet specified as “embracing the law of the Church”  chapter heading), the Lord said:“Behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support that which thou hast to impart unto them. …“And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors. …“And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, … it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants.“Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy.” “And this I do,” said the Lord, “for the  of my people.”  italics added.)In this revelation, which the Prophet designated the “law of the Church,” the Lord revealed the essentials of the united order, which was His program for eliminating the inequalities among men. It is based upon the underlying concept that the earth and all things therein belong to the Lord, and that men hold earthly possessions as stewards accountable to Him.“I, the Lord,” He said, “stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, … and all things therein are mine.“And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine.“But it must needs be done in mine own way.” In  there are two cardinal principles: (1) consecration, and (2) stewardship.To enter the united order, one consecrated all his possessions to the Church by a “covenant and a deed which [could not] be broken.” That is, he completely divested himself of all his property by conveying it to the Church.Having done so, the consecrator received from the Church a stewardship by a like conveyance. This stewardship could be more or less than the original consecration, the object being to make “every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs.” This procedure preserved in every man the right of private ownership and management of his property. Indeed, the fundamental principle of the system was the private ownership of property. Each man owned his portion, or inheritance, or stewardship, with an absolute title, which, at his option, he could alienate, keep and operate, or otherwise treat as his own. The Church did not own all of the property, and life under the united order was not, and never will be, a communal life, as the Prophet Joseph himself said.The intent was, however, for him to so operate his property as to produce a living for himself and his dependents. So long as he remained in the order, he consecrated to the Church the  he produced above the needs and wants of his own family. This surplus went into a storehouse, from which stewardships were given to others, and from which the needs of the poor were supplied.With these concepts in mind, we are better prepared to understand how our present Welfare Services efforts relate to the united order and the full ideal of Zion which the Lord has in mind to bring about. Because the people were not then fully ready to live the united order, the Lord suspended it, because, as He said:“They have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh saints, to the poor and afflicted among them;“And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom;“And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself.” He further indicated that:“It is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion—“That they themselves may be prepared, and that my people may be taught more perfectly, and have experience, and know more perfectly concerning their duty, and the things which I require at their hands.” Full implementation of the united order must, according to the revelation, await the redemption of Zion. (See  In the meantime—while we are being more perfectly taught and are gaining experience—we should be strictly living the principles of the united order insofar as they are embodied in present Church requirements, such as tithing, fast offerings, welfare projects, storehouses, and other principles and practices. Through these programs we should, as individuals, implement in our own lives the bases of the united order.The law of tithing, for example, gives us a great opportunity to implement the principle of consecration and stewardship. When it was instituted, four years after the united order experiment was suspended, the Lord required the people to put “all their surplus property … into the hands of the bishop”; thereafter they were to “pay one-tenth of all their interest annually.”  This law, still in force, implements to a degree at least the united order principle of stewardship. It leaves in the hands of each person the ownership and management of the property from which he produces the needs of himself and family. To use again the words of President Clark:“In lieu of residues and surpluses which were accumulated and built up under the United Order, we, today, have our fast offerings, our Welfare donations, and our tithing, all of which may be devoted to the care of the poor, as well as the carrying on of the activities and business of the Church. …“Furthermore, we had under the United Order a bishop’s storehouse in which were collected the materials from which to supply the needs and the wants of the poor. We have a bishop’s storehouse under the Welfare Plan, used for the same purpose. …“We have now under the Welfare Plan all over the church, … projects … farmed [or managed] for the benefit of the poor. …“Thus … in many of its great essentials, we have, [in] the Welfare Plan … the broad essentials of the United Order.” ( Oct. 1942, pp. 57–58.)It is thus apparent that when the principles of tithing and the fast are properly observed and the welfare plan gets fully developed and wholly into operation, “we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order.” (Ibid., p. 57.) The only limitation on you and me is within ourselves.My dear brothers and sisters, I have been reflecting on the counsels of the First Presidency relative to Welfare Services, and I have been impressed that through them we all have received a call to action. President Kimball reminded us in the April 1976 welfare session of general conference of the words of the Lord:“Why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?” On February 2 of this year, at a historic meeting of the General Welfare Services Committee of the Church, President Marion G. Romney stated:“All Church members, from kindergarten to high priests groups and all Relief Society sisters, should be so plainly, accurately, and inspirationally taught that  applicable welfare principles and procedures in their personal lives and in their family and Church responsibilities.”There is no mistaking these counsels. They are asking us, pleading with us, to  to  to  the welfare work of the Church. We have been reevaluating the crucial role of Relief Society workers in this area. We recognize that the women of the Church have a great responsibility to  to  to  and to  in harmony and in partnership with the priesthood in this important work.In one ward a Relief Society president seemed to understand these responsibilities. In a regular weekly ward welfare services committee meeting she reported that an elderly widow was having trouble coping with life after the recent loss of her husband. Her health was waning, her legs were causing her problems and limiting her ability to move about and care for herself. She was understandably very lonely and also worried about her neglected garden. Considerable concern was expressed about her poor diet. The ward Relief Society president explained that compassionate service assignments had been made to the visiting teachers and to other sisters in the ward to help her plan and prepare three balanced meals each day and to organize and do such needed housework as the sister would permit. The home teachers agreed to ask her if she would like them to give her a special blessing. They also said they would keep up her garden and look for other ways to be helpful.After several weeks, as a result of the blessing and the loving help, she gained courage and a desire to be self-sustaining.This story illustrates how the ward welfare services committee can work together to meet the needs of ward members.Stake and district Relief Society presidencies everywhere should plan what to teach so that ward and branch presidencies will more fully understand and carry out their welfare duties efficiently and effectively. Specifically, they should teach how a ward Relief Society president—As Relief Society presidents perform these functions they will be fulfilling a primary purpose of the Relief Society as laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he said that an objective of the Relief Society is “the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.” ( 4:567.)As we serve we should be fulfilling the priesthood expectations as stated by President Harold B. Lee in a welfare meeting in October of 1946:“I would like to think this: A wife in a home, a woman, is expected to be … an intelligent and inspired participant in the family partnership. That is just where we think the place of the Relief Society is in the Welfare Program. … We expect that they shall be invited in as intelligent participants in the  of the Welfare partnership, and without that invitation and without that opportunity, we are not going to get the solidarity that we otherwise could expect.” ( Dec. 1946, p. 814.)President Tanner restated this partnership principle in June 1976 when he said:“The presidency of the Relief Society, having a specific responsibility placed upon them by the President of the Church at the time they were organized, should be considered as a partner with the Melchizedek Priesthood in somewhat the same manner as a wife would work with her husband in directing the affairs of the family.” (Announcement by the First Presidency, reported in  June 5, 1976, p. 3.)In welfare services the Melchizedek Priesthood and Relief Society leaders should exemplify that partnership at the stake level by correlating plans for the proper training of ward officers, and at the ward level in both the training of ward welfare services personnel and in implementing the program.Something of this relationship might be seen if I relate a conversation with a friend of mine. He said, “My wife and I decided to face the front of our home with rocks. So I called around and located a place where I could get them.“I started to get into my truck when my wife called to me and said, ‘Let me go with you. I want to help you.’“When we got to the place where the rocks were located, we found them on the top of a hill. I complained, ‘That’s going to be a terrible job to get those rocks down.’“My wife said, ‘I’ll go up to the top of the hill and roll the rocks down to you and then you’ll just have to carry them over to the truck. How does that sound?’“I thought that was a good idea,” he said. “I watched her climb to the top of the hill and disappear for a few minutes. Soon she called out, ‘Here comes the first rock. Here comes another one.’ Then she said, ‘Oh, this rock is a beauty. I hope this one won’t be too heavy for you to carry.’“I said, ‘I’ll carry anything you roll down.’“Then she said, ‘Look at this rock. It has real character. Here comes my favorite.’”He said, “She actually had me waiting anxiously for each rock.” And then he said, “In this endeavor, as in many other of our projects together, she had given me not only the help I needed but a perspective that often eludes men.”I would like to see all sisters, particularly Relief Society presidents, acting as helpmeets to the priesthood in the rendering of welfare assistance.I urge Relief Society leaders everywhere to accept the call to action of our inspired prophets to perform and to accomplish our assigned welfare tasks. May we work together as companions with the priesthood, remembering the principle of partnership; may we teach effectively the fundamentals of welfare services, and implement them by enlarging our vision of this work, particularly as it applies to the art of compassionate services. For as President Marion G. Romney once said:“Effective administration of relief to the poor is an art, and it is an art which every dedicated Relief Society worker will seek to perfect in herself.” ( Feb. 1961, p. 77.)I pray that every Relief Society worker and leader will recognize our great opportunity, our obligation to render assistance to those in need, sympathetically, appropriately, and lovingly—even in the spirit of Jesus Christ when he said:“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.