On a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of 1820, a fourteen-year-old boy knelt in a grove of trees and poured out his thoughts and feelings to God. What followed made his experience the most important event that had transpired in nearly 1,800 years. God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him in person—face to face.Subsequently, through this young man, whose name was Joseph Smith, God restored his church and the fulness of his gospel.This restoration is what made that experience so important. I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ that this is true. I know that he talked with God and that there was such a restoration because the Holy Spirit has borne witness of it to me. I say it without the slightest hesitation. I have a sure conviction that it happened.It is important that members of the Church know that each General Authority has that sure knowledge, for the Savior, referring to individual revelation, said to Peter, “And upon this rock [meaning the rock of individual revelation] I will build my church.” Serving the Lord is not an individual matter. It is a family affair. Every wife should support her husband in his Church responsibilities; every husband should support his wife in hers; every child his parent; every parent his children; every brother his sister; and every sister her brother.This builds the eternal family.I am grateful to my sweetheart, who has been a good companion, an outstanding mother, a dedicated wife, and a remarkable missionary companion. I am grateful to her parents, who have reared a righteous family; to our children, who have joined with us over the years in serving the Lord; to our families, who have been so loyal and supportive; and to my wonderful parents and brother, who, from their heavenly abode, I am confident, are aware of my recent calling to be an especial witness of the Savior.Missionary service is rewarding.Sister Derrick and I spent three satisfying years in northern England in missionary work. We had been home only forty-eight hours when the call came to return as soon as possible and preside over a new mission being established in the Republic of Ireland. What a glorious experience it has been.In Ireland, where social pressures are unusually strong, a father with tears running down his cheeks said, “They call me a fool—my family calls me a fool—my friends call me a fool; but I’ll take their abuse any and every day of the year in loyalty to my Savior who has led me to the true Church.”Still another, who had been particularly skeptical, on the night of his baptism said, “It’s true—but not only is it true, it is the whole truth and nothing but the truth.” So declare we to the world regarding this message of the Restoration.The more experience I gain in teaching the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, the more I am impressed with the concept of the  shared by a friend years ago which deserves a more broad exposure. Each of the Beatitudes represents a specific step in our orderly progression towards perfection, and teaches us how to qualify ourselves for exaltation, for the Bible concludes the chapter on the Beatitudes with the words, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.” The Savior began his sermon saying,  italics added.) When the Savior gave the same sermon to the people of ancient America, he said, “Blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”  “Who come unto me”—that clarifies the meaning.When I was a boy, a herd of horses ran wild on Ensign Flats just north of the Utah State Capitol building. In the summertime we would occasionally sit on the mountainside with binoculars and watch the herd as they roamed and grazed on the flat below. For the most part the horses appeared to be a mangy lot, but there was one that had a grace, a dignity, and a spirit that qualified him to lead the herd. We tried on several occasions to put a rope on this stallion. One day we succeeded, but we soon found that we had on the end of the rope a bundle of fury that we couldn’t manage. As hard as we tried, we couldn’t ride him. After several attempts we gave up and turned him loose. He was of no value to us.I was reading recently that when professionals train Arabian horses they work with them for several months. At the conclusion of the training period they are placed in a corral without food or water. After several days both food and water are placed some distance away, but within sight. The gate is then opened and the horses run to satisfy their appetites.Just before they reach the food and water, the trainer blows a whistle. Those that respond to the trainer’s whistle are singled out as the most valued. They are submissive to the master’s call.Under a mandate from the Lord we have 25,000 young men who are sifting the people of the world to find those that are submissive to Him and to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. We are finding an increasing number throughout the nations of the world who respond, but the vast majority prefer to satisfy their own appetites and to do things their own way instead of the Lord’s way.When we love the Lord we will submit ourselves to  plan and serve him with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength. This is the  step. We must take it in order to qualify for exaltation. The miracle of change begins when we come forth with a contrite spirit.The Savior then said,  italics added.) This is the  It is an essential one. The apostle Paul spoke of a godly sorrow for our sins when he said, “For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation.”  It is necessary to repent of our sins if we are to be forgiven and if the atonement of Jesus Christ is to be effective in our lives. Oh! how joyous it is to work with a person as he goes through the process of repentance, enters the water of baptism, and comes into the kingdom of God. There develops a bond of love and unity with those who have gone through this purifying process that the world does not understand.The Savior next said,  italics added.) To be meek is to be teachable. Those who are willing to listen can learn much. Those who are unwilling to listen deny themselves great blessings. You needn’t worry about being deceived, for the prophet Moroni wrote, “By the power of the Holy Ghost you may know the truth of all things.”  You have the receiving set within you to distinguish false doctrine from true doctrine. Follow the steps outlined by the Savior in the Beatitudes and your receiving set will become finely tuned. Then pray to God in sincerity for an answer and your receiving set will work. This is God’s way for us to discern the truth.The Savior further said,   italics added.) The Book of Mormon account reads, “For they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.”  This is important. The Holy Ghost is the great teacher and teaches us the truth of all things. God has documented his plan of salvation—a plan for  salvation. It is found in the holy scriptures and the Lord has commanded us to “search the scriptures.”  The plan is not complicated, but it is comprehensive. It is so comprehensive that we never stop learning, yet it is beautifully simple. The Lord has promised us all that if we follow his program we will learn “line upon line, precept upon precept”  until the perfect day.This promise is to every man. We should develop an insatiable appetite for knowledge pertaining to our salvation, for the Savior said, “And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”  There is no more important, exciting, and exhilarating subject than to learn about him who created the worlds and the plan he has prepared for us.As we begin to follow the teachings of the Savior, our thoughts and our hearts turn to others. The Savior continued,   italics added.) Happiness is a by-product of helping others. No man ever finds happiness by thinking of himself. True happiness comes when we lose ourselves in the service of others—when we are merciful to our fellowmen.Being merciful to others leads to purity of heart, for the Savior said,  italics added.)The by-product of a pure heart is inner peace. The Lord next said,    italics added.) When a man obtains inner peace he wants peace in his family. He wants peace in his community. He wants peace in the nation. And he wants peace in the world.Sister Derrick and I recently drove from Dublin to Limerick, Ireland. Along the way were signs painted on walls and bus stop enclosures: “Brits out—Peace in.” That is not the way nor the road to peace. Peace comes from within the individual. Establish peace in the hearts and minds of the citizens of a country and you’ll have peace in the nation. We declare to the world that living the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith will bring peace to the hearts of men and in turn will bring peace to the nations of the world.Teaching the doctrine of the Savior was never done without opposition. The Lord says of those who are willing to withstand social pressures and criticism and continue to serve him: “
	
        italics added.) And thus the Savior described the miracle of change that comes into one’s life when he accepts the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is a beautiful, miraculous, and soul-satisfying gift from God.The Savior concluded the Beatitudes by saying of those who conform their lives to these teachings, “Ye are the salt of the earth. …“Ye are the light of the world. …“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” The prophet Nephi, referring to the Savior, said, “He inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him.” To all men everywhere we reiterate that invitation to come unto the Savior the way he has outlined, partake of his goodness, “and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory”  “which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.What I shall say I could say much better if we were alone, just the two of us. It would be easier also if we had come to know one another, and had that kind of trust which makes it possible to talk of serious, even sacred things.If we were that close, because of the nature of what I shall say, I would study you carefully as I spoke. If there should be the slightest disinterest or distraction, the subject would quickly be changed to more ordinary things.I have not, to my knowledge, in my ministry said anything more important. I intend to talk about the Lord, Jesus Christ, about what He really did—and why it matters now.One may ask, “Aside from the influence He has had on society, what effect can He have on me individually?”To answer that question I ask, have you ever been hard-pressed financially? Have you ever been confronted with an unexpected expense, a mortgage coming due, with really no idea how to pay it?Such an experience, however unpleasant, can be, in the eternal scheme of things, very, very useful. If you miss that lesson you may have to make it up before you are spiritually mature, like a course that was missed or a test that was failed.That may be what the Lord had in mind when He said,“It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.” Those who have faced a foreclosure know that one looks helplessly around, hoping for someone, anyone, to come to the rescue.This lesson is so valuable because there is a spiritual account, with a balance kept and a settlement due, that no one of us will escape.To understand this spiritual debt we must speak of such intangibles as love, faith, mercy, justice.Although these virtues are both silent and invisible, surely I do not need to persuade you that they are real. We learn of them by processes that are often silent and invisible as well. .We become so accustomed to learning through our physical senses—by sight and sound and smell, by taste and touch—that some of us seem to learn in no other way.But there are spiritual things that are not registered that way at all. Some things we simply feel, not as we feel something we touch, but as we feel something we There are things, spiritual things, that are registered in our minds and recorded in our memories as pure knowledge. A knowledge of “things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass.”  see also  and As surely as we know about material things, we can come to know of spiritual things.Each of us, without exception, one day will settle that spiritual account. We will, that day, face a judgment for our doings in mortal life and face a foreclosure of sorts.One thing I know: we will be justly dealt with. Justice, the eternal law of justice, will be the measure against which we settle this account.Justice is usually pictured holding a set of scales and blindfolded against the possibility that she may be partial or become sympathetic. There is no sympathy in justice alone—only justice! Our lives will be weighed on the scales of justice.The Prophet Alma declared:“Justice claimeth the creature and executeth the law, and the law inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.” I commend to you the reading of the 42nd chapter of Alma. It reveals the place of justice and should confirm that the poet spoke the truth when he said, “In the course of justice [only,] none of us should see salvation.” (Shakespeare,  IV. i. 199–200.)Let me tell you a story—a parable.There once was a man who wanted something very much. It seemed more important than anything else in his life. In order for him to have his desire, he incurred a great debt.He had been warned about going into that much debt, and particularly about his creditor. But it seemed so important for him to do what he wanted to do and to have what he wanted right now. He was sure he could pay for it later.So he signed a contract. He would pay it off some time along the way. He didn’t worry too much about it, for the due date seemed such a long time away. He had what he wanted now, and that was what seemed important.The creditor was always somewhere in the back of his mind, and he made token payments now and again, thinking somehow that the day of reckoning really would never come.But as it always does, the day came, and the contract fell due. The debt had not been fully paid. His creditor appeared and demanded payment in full.Only then did he realize that his creditor not only had the power to repossess all that he owned, but the power to cast him into prison as well.“I cannot pay you, for I have not the power to do so,” he confessed.“Then,” said the creditor, “we will exercise the contract, take your possessions, and you shall go to prison. You agreed to that. It was your choice. You signed the contract, and now it must be enforced.”“Can you not extend the time or forgive the debt?” the debtor begged. “Arrange some way for me to keep what I have and not go to prison. Surely you believe in mercy? Will you not show mercy?”The creditor replied, “Mercy is always so one-sided. It would serve only you. If I show mercy to you, it will leave me unpaid. It is justice I demand. Do you believe in justice?”“I believed in justice when I signed the contract,” the debtor said. “It was on my side then, for I thought it would protect me. I did not need mercy then, nor think I should need it ever. Justice, I thought, would serve both of us equally as well.”“It is justice that demands that you pay the contract or suffer the penalty,” the creditor replied. “That is the law. You have agreed to it and that is the way it must be. Mercy cannot rob justice.”There they were: One meting out justice, the other pleading for mercy. Neither could prevail except at the expense of the other.“If you do not forgive the debt there will be no mercy,” the debtor pleaded.“If I do, there will be no justice,” was the reply.Both laws, it seemed, could not be served. They are two eternal ideals that appear to contradict one another. Is there no way for justice to be fully served, and mercy also?There is a way! The law of justice  be fully satisfied and mercy  be fully extended—but it takes someone else. And so it happened this time.The debtor had a friend. He came to help. He knew the debtor well. He knew him to be shortsighted. He thought him foolish to have gotten himself into such a predicament. Nevertheless, he wanted to help because he loved him. He stepped between them, faced the creditor, and made this offer.“I will pay the debt if you will free the debtor from his contract so that he may keep his possessions and not go to prison.”As the creditor was pondering the offer, the mediator added, “You demanded justice. Though he cannot pay you, I will do so. You will have been justly dealt with and can ask no more. It would not be just.”And so the creditor agreed.The mediator turned then to the debtor. “If I pay your debt, will you accept me as your creditor?”“Oh yes, yes,” cried the debtor. “You save me from prison and show mercy to me.”“Then,” said the benefactor, “you will pay the debt to me and I will set the terms. It will not be easy, but it will be possible. I will provide a way. You need not go to prison.”And so it was that the creditor was paid in full. He had been justly dealt with. No contract had been broken. The debtor, in turn, had been extended mercy. Both laws stood fulfilled. Because there was a mediator, justice had claimed its full share, and mercy was fully satisfied.Each of us lives on a kind of spiritual credit. One day the account will be closed, a settlement demanded. However casually we may view it now, when that day comes and the foreclosure is imminent, we will look around in restless agony for someone, anyone, to help us.And, by eternal law, mercy cannot be extended save there be one who is both willing and able to assume our debt and pay the price and arrange the terms for our redemption.Unless there is a mediator, unless we have a friend, the full weight of justice untempered, unsympathetic, must, positively must fall on us. The full recompense for every transgression, however minor or however deep, will be exacted from us to the uttermost farthing.But know this: Truth, glorious truth, proclaims there is such a Mediator.“For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus.” Through Him mercy can be fully extended to each of us without offending the eternal law of justice.This truth is the very root of Christian doctrine. You may know much about the gospel as it branches out from there, but if you only know the branches and those branches do not touch that root, if they have been cut free from that truth, there will be no life nor substance nor redemption in them.The extension of mercy will not be automatic. It will be through covenant with Him. It will be on His terms, His generous terms, which include, as an absolute essential, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins.All mankind can be protected by the law of justice, and at once each of us individually may be extended the redeeming and healing blessing of mercy.A knowledge of what I am talking about is of a very practical value. It is very useful and very helpful personally; it opens the way for each of us to keep his spiritual accounts paid up.You, perhaps, are among those troubled people. When you come face to face with yourself in those moments of quiet contemplation—that many of us try to avoid—are there some unsettled things that bother you?Do you have something on your conscience? Are you still, to one degree or another, guilty of anything small or large?We often try to solve guilt problems by telling one another that they don’t matter. But somehow, deep inside, we don’t believe one another. Nor do we believe ourselves if we say it. We know better. They do matter!Our transgressions are all added to our account, and one day if it is not properly settled, each of us, like Belshazzar of Babylon, will be weighed in the balance and found wanting.There is a Redeemer, a Mediator, who stands both willing and able to appease the demands of justice and extend mercy to those who are penitent, for “He offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered.” Already He has accomplished the redemption of all mankind from mortal death; resurrection is extended to all without condition.He also makes possible redemption from the second death, which is the spiritual death, which is separation from the presence of our Heavenly Father. This redemption can come only to those who are clean, for no unclean thing can dwell in the presence of God.If justice decrees that we are not eligible because of our transgression, mercy provides a probation, a penitence, a preparation to enter in.I have carried with me a great desire to bear testimony of the Lord, Jesus Christ. I have yearned to tell you in as simple terms as I can, what He did, and who He is.Although I know how poor mere words can be, I know also that such feelings are often carried by the spirit, even without words.At times I struggle under the burden of imperfections. Nevertheless, because I know that He lives, there is a supreme recurring happiness and joy.There is one place where I am particularly vulnerable—when I know that I have abused someone, or caused them hurt, or offended them. It is then I know what agony is.How sweet it is, on those occasions, to be reassured that He lives, and to have my witness reaffirmed. I want, with fervent desire, to show you how our burdens of disappointment, sin, and guilt can be laid before Him, and on His generous terms have each item on the account marked, “Paid in Full.”I claim with my brethren of the Twelve to be a special witness of Him. My witness, and theirs, is true. I love the Lord, and I love the Father who sent Him.Eliza R. Snow, with deep spiritual inspiration, wrote these words, with which I close.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.