Elder Monson and I have traveled a good many miles together, over a good many years. Elder Monson and I and Louis Jacobsen likewise traveled together for a long time over the years of our lives. And I hope, with Brother Monson’s permission, I may now travel with him a little farther on the road to Jericho.Anciently Jesus asked the Pharisees this question: “What think ye of Christ?” Those Pharisees were so misdirected in their thinking that “no man was able to answer him a word.”  But had they known it, the question was vital to their own best interests, just as it is to our well-being today.What think ye of Christ? To bring it down to our own day, let us ask ourselves, What do we, personally, think of him?Latter-day Saints are able to identify him very quickly. Christ is Jesus of Nazareth, who was born of Mary in Bethlehem. He also is our Redeemer and our Creator, the divine Son of God.But knowing who he is, what shall we do about him? Shall we fully accept him, or brush him aside, or take some middle-of-the-road attitude and compromise our beliefs according to existing pressures?The misdirected Pharisees with whom he spoke took pride in rites and rituals, but were nevertheless condemned by the Lord because they neglected the weightier matters of the law: fair judgment, mercy, and the exercise of true faith which produces righteous works.When the Savior spoke of those weightier matters he referred to personal relationships between people, such as Brother Monson has been talking about. It is significant that he made those relationships a vital part of his gospel. It is indeed remarkable that the nature of our dealings with our fellowmen will determine, in large measure, our status in the kingdom of heaven.In other words, we ourselves may be like the ancient Pharisees. We may attend to rites and rituals and yet overlook the weightier matters such as brotherly kindness, honesty, mercy, virtue, and integrity. Let us never forget that if we omit them from our lives we may be found unworthy to come into His presence.Think for a moment of the second great commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves.  How many observe it? Keep in mind that the Lord said it is of like importance to the first great commandment, which is to love God with all our heart and soul.Consider, too, his commandment to do unto others as we would be done by. How many live that law? How many go down that road to Jericho?Read again the parable of the Good Samaritan  especially in light of the last part of the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew. Do not these scriptures teach that if we fail to do right by our fellowmen we seriously jeopardize our own salvation? Note the Lord’s words:“I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:“I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: … sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. …“Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.” Those to whom he spoke, who were thus neglectful, were not counted with the sheep of his fold. They were not on his favored right hand, but on his left where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth. “And these,” the scripture says, “shall go away into everlasting punishment.” The First Epistle of John tells us that if we do not have good relationships with our neighbors, whom we have seen, we cannot rightfully claim to love God, whom we have not seen. Do we take time occasionally to read the Sermon on the Mount? It refers largely to our relationships with one another. Let me mention just a few of its principles. I quote from this sermon as it appears in the Book of Mormon:“If ye shall come unto me, or shall desire to come unto me, and rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee—“Go thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I will receive you.” Can we suppose for one moment that the Lord would welcome us on any other basis?And then we have this: “If ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father will also forgive you;“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Note what a great principle is involved here, and how it can affect each one of us. “If ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Let us pause a moment and ask ourselves if we can enter his kingdom with unforgiven sins.And then he said: “Judge not, that ye be not judged.“For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.” In the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants we read that “the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man.” This teaching deserves the most careful consideration, for on judgment day the Lord will mete out to us precisely as we have dealt with our fellowmen, unless we have fully repented. It is a staggering thought, and yet it is an integral factor in the Lord’s method of judgment. Do we realize its broad significance? Do we see how we shall reap what we sow?This principle, showing the manner by which God will judge us, puts a new light upon the commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves, and should persuade us to take that law seriously.It also helps us to understand the deep meaning of the Golden Rule: “All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” This is a commandment, and to further emphasize it the Lord said: “This is the law and the prophets.” It is not something we may lightly set aside. Does it not help us to better understand the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew? Can we see then his purpose in disciplining people for being unkind to their fellowmen?What makes it even more compelling is another statement which the Lord gave us in the Sermon on the Mount, and this to me is awesome. Said the Lord, “Verily I say unto you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have commanded you at this time, ”  italics added.)Frightening, isn’t it?With this scripture we should keep in mind another divine declaration: “And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end. …“And he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is also hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence they can no more return, because of the justice of the Father.” Doesn’t that startle you? Doesn’t it convince you that we must take his commandments seriously?When we ask, “What think ye of Christ,” should we not ask ourselves also if we truly accept the high standards of life he has established for admittance into his kingdom? Compliance with them is what puts oil in our lamps, if we may refer to the Lord’s parable.If we hope to enter his kingdom, we cannot regard these basic commandments as if they were optional. He has said, “This is the way, walk ye in it.” If we are unkind, unclean, dishonest, or cruel; if we are hypocritical and appear pious when in fact our hearts are evil, we throw our hope of salvation to the four winds, unless we truly repent.As he spoke to the Nephites, the Savior asked: “What manner of men ought ye to be?” And he quickly replied, “Even as I am.” We all remember these familiar words: “Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven.”  This, too, should give us pause, for mere protestations of faith will not admit us into the kingdom, even though we may say, “Have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works?” If we have not obeyed the weightier matters of the law, dealing justly with our fellowmen, he will surely say to us: “I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” This helps us to better understand the words of Paul as he said: “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.“And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.“And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.” And what is charity in its true sense? It is the pure love of Christ which helps us to love both God and our fellowmen.In the book of Alma we read a further explanation: “If ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth) and is trodden under foot of men.” The Lord teaches us that we cannot serve two masters, God and Mammon, at the same time  but many still try to do so!Why is the Lord so strict in requiring detailed obedience from us? It is because he expects us to become perfect as he is. The very object of our existence as children of God is to become like Him. But no unclean thing may enter his presence. Therefore we must perfect ourselves, beginning here in mortality, keeping in mind that we cannot achieve perfection through imperfect means.That is why God is so strict. That is why he cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance.One of our great failings is that often we are slothful in complying with the commandments. With respect to this he said: “It is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. …“But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.” The Prophet Abinadi gave us further understanding of this vital principle in these words: “The Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him and die in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known the commandments of God, and would not keep them; these are they that have no part in the first resurrection. …“For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such.” But nevertheless the Lord invites all to come unto him on conditions of repentance, and says: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” So what are we to do? We are to “seek … first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.”  We are to give our religion first priority in our lives, and then serve God with all our hearts and do unto others as we would be done by as we travel down the road to Jericho. And that we may do so is my humble and earnest prayer in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.My dear brothers and sisters, I seek the help of our Heavenly Father as I respond to the invitation to speak to you today. A great number of you have journeyed many miles to attend this conference. From the north, the south, the east, and the west you have traveled the roads to Salt Lake City.The word  is most intriguing. A generation ago movie moguls featured Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour in films entitled  and  Earlier yet, Rudyard Kipling immortalized another road when he penned the lines of “On the Road to Mandalay.”This afternoon my thoughts have returned to a road made famous by a parable Jesus told. I speak of the road to Jericho. May I open the Bible to the Gospel of St. Luke, that we might together relive the memorable event which made famous for all time the Jericho Road.A certain lawyer stood and tempted the Master, saying, “What shall I do to inherit eternal life?“He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?“And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.“And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.“But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?“And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.“And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.“And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.“But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,“And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.“And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.“Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?“And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.” Each of us, in the journey through mortality, will travel his own Jericho Road. What will be your experience? What will be mine? Will I fail to notice him who has fallen among thieves and requires my help? Will you?Will I be one who sees the injured and hears his plea, yet crosses to the other side? Will you?Or will I be one who sees, who hears, who pauses, and who helps? Will you?Jesus provided our watchword, “Go, and do thou likewise.” When we obey that declaration, there opens to our eternal view a vista of joy seldom equaled and never surpassed.Now the Jericho Road may not be clearly marked. Neither may the injured cry out, that we may hear. But when we walk in the steps of that good Samaritan, we walk the pathway that leads to perfection.Note the many examples provided by the Master: the crippled man at the pool of Bethesda; the woman taken in adultery; the woman at Jacob’s well; the daughter of Jairus; Lazarus, brother of Mary and Martha—each represented a casualty on the Jericho Road. Each needed help.To the cripple at Bethesda, Jesus said, “Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.”  To the sinful woman came the counsel, “Go, and sin no more.”  To her who came to draw water, He provided a well of water springing up into everlasting life. To the dead daughter of Jairus came the command, “Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.”  To the entombed Lazarus, the memorable words, “Lazarus, come forth.” One may well ask the penetrating question, “These accounts pertained to the Redeemer of the world. Can there actually occur in my own life, on my Jericho Road, such a treasured experience?”My answer is a resounding “yes.” Let me share with you two such examples—first, the account of one who was injured and was helped; second, the learning experience of one who traveled the Jericho Road.Some years ago there went to his eternal reward one of the kindest and most loved men to grace the earth. I speak of Louis C. Jacobsen. He ministered to those in need, he assisted the immigrant to find employment, and he delivered more sermons at more funeral services than any other I have known.One day while in a reflective mood, Louis Jacobsen told me of his boyhood. He was the son of a poor Danish widow. He was small in stature, not comely in appearance—easily the object of his classmates’ thoughtless jokes. In Sunday School one Sabbath morning, the children made light of his patched trousers and his worn shirt. Too proud to cry, tiny Louis fled from the chapel, stopping at last, out of breath, to sit and rest on the curb which ran along Second West in Salt Lake City. Clear water flowed along the gutter next to the curb where Louis sat. From his pocket he took a piece of paper which contained the outlined Sunday School lesson and skillfully shaped a paper boat, which he launched on the flowing water. From his hurt boyish heart came the determined words, “I’ll never go back.”Suddenly, through his tears Louis saw reflected in the water the image of a large and well-dressed man. Louis turned his face upward and recognized George Burbidge, the Sunday School superintendent.“May I sit down with you?” asked the kind leader.Louis nodded affirmatively. There on the gutter’s curb sat a good Samaritan ministering to one who surely was in need. Several boats were formed and launched while the conversation continued. At last the leader stood and, with a boy’s hand tightly clutching his, they returned to Sunday School.Later Louis himself presided over that same Sunday School. Throughout his long life of service, he never failed to acknowledge the traveler who rescued him along a Jericho Road.When I first learned of that far-reaching experience, I reflected on the words:May I relate to you my first journey along a personal Jericho Road. In about my tenth year, as Christmas approached, I yearned as only a boy can yearn for an electric train. My desire was not to receive the economical and everywhere-to-be-found wind-up model train, but rather one that operated through the miracle of electricity.The times were those of economic depression, yet Mother and Dad, through some sacrifice, I am sure, presented to me on Christmas morning a beautiful electric train. For hours I operated the transformer, watching the engine first pull its cars forward, then push them backward around the track.Mother entered the living room and said to me that she had purchased a wind-up train for Widow Hansen’s boy, Mark, who lived down the lane. I asked if I could see the train. The engine was short and blocky—not long and sleek like the expensive model I had received.However, I did take notice of an oil tanker car which was part of his inexpensive set. My train had no such car, and pangs of envy began to be felt. I put up such a fuss that Mother succumbed to my pleadings and handed me the oil tanker car. She said, “If you need it more than Mark, you take it.” I put it with my train set and felt pleased with the result.Mother and I took the remaining cars and the engine down to Mark Hansen. The young boy was a year or two older than I. He had never anticipated such a gift and was thrilled beyond words. He wound the key in his engine, it not being electric like mine, and was overjoyed as the engine and two cars, plus a caboose, went around the track.Mother wisely asked, “What do you think of Mark’s train, Tommy?”I felt a keen sense of guilt and became very much aware of my selfishness. I said to Mother, “Wait just a moment—I’ll be right back.”As swiftly as my legs could carry me, I ran to our home, picked up the oil tanker car plus an additional car of my own, ran back down the lane to the Hansen home, and said joyfully to Mark, “We forgot to bring two cars which belong to your train.”Mark coupled the two extra cars to his set. I watched the engine make its labored way around the track and felt a supreme joy difficult to describe and impossible to forget.Mother and I left the Hansen home and slowly walked up the street. She, who with her hand in God’s had entered into the valley of the shadow of death to bring me, her son, across the bridge of life, now took me by the hand and together we returned homeward by way of our private Jericho Road.Some remember mother for her rhymes recited, others for her music played, songs sung, favors bestowed, or stories told; but I remember best that day we together traveled our Jericho Road and, like the good Samaritan, found a cherished opportunity to help.My brothers and sisters, today there are hearts to gladden, there are deeds to be done—even precious souls to save. The sick, the weary, the hungry, the cold, the injured, the lonely, the aged, the wanderer—all cry out for our help.The road signs of life enticingly invite every traveler: This way to fame; this way to affluence; this way to popularity; this way to luxury. Pause at the crossroads before you continue your journey. Listen for that still, small voice which ever so gently beckons, “Come, follow me. This way to Jericho.”May each of us follow Him along that Jericho Road, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.