Beloved brothers and sisters, we come to the close of this great conference. We have been much benefited and blessed. You have heard thirty or more speakers bear testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, and I should like to say it was He, Jesus Christ, who came forth from the tomb a resurrected being, and He, who “though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;“And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him.” It was this same Jesus Christ who gave revelations to his prophets and revealed to them also through John the Revelator: “I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last …“I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.” It was He, Jesus Christ, in his glorified state who came to the ancestors of the Indians, who is variously known by them as the Great White Spirit, the Fair God and numerous other names.It was He, Jesus Christ, our Savior, who was introduced to surprised listeners at Jordan (see  at the holy Mount of Transfiguration (see  at the temple of the Nephites (see  and in the grove at Palmyra, New York (see  and the introducing person was none other than his actual Father, the holy Elohim, in whose image he was and whose will he carried out.Many people have grown up with the idea that it was the Father who was in charge through the Old Testament history days whenever the title God or Lord was used.It is noteworthy that the Father, God, Elohim came to the earth upon each necessary occasion to introduce the Son to a new dispensation, to a new people; then Jesus Christ, the Son, carried forward his work.This has happened again in our own dispensation when both separate beings, the Father and the Son, came again to the earth in person and appeared unto man. This holy occurrence was described by the devout and prepared young man who was the principal recipient of the vision.There are many different approaches toward our Creator. There are many who profess belief in a God but have little idea what he is. Or perhaps they do not ever expect to see their Creator. Perhaps they would not recognize him when he comes, not knowing what to expect.The mountain, the river, the volcano became gods to many. But man in his searching has created himself a God without form or power or substance.Jesus Christ is the God of this world. He has made it very plain in his many self-introductions.The Lord Jesus Christ proclaimed to Abraham, “My name is Jehovah.” And Abraham declared, “Thus I, Abraham, talked with the Lord, face to face, as one man talketh with another; and he told me of the works which his hands had made.” And Moses said concerning his Maker: “And he [Moses] saw God face to face, … and the glory of God was upon Moses; therefore Moses could endure his presence.“And God spake unto Moses, saying: Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name. …” In the first century in this land the people who had read the scriptures and realized they were about to be fulfilled gathered in a great multitude around and about the temple in the land Bountiful. As they marveled and wondered, conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given concerning his death, and “while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven …“It did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.“And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them:“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name.” This is a new introduction, since the one used at the time of the Jordan River introduction. Then he said, “Hear ye him.“And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.“And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.” After a long dissertation in which he explained to them the doctrines of Christianity, he said, “Behold, ye have both heard my voice, and seen me.” “When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.“And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.“And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock [the rock of revelation] I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.“And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.” Here were the sacred binding keys of the kingdom of heaven to bind in heaven that which was authoritatively bound in the earth.It was the solid, firm rock of revelation by which the apostles knew that He was the Christ, the Son of the living God. It is that revelation upon which God’s church would be built and the gates of hell could not prevail against it.“The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.“And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.“And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God!” Then we have the testimony of Peter: “Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;“Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me.“Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance.“For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.“For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.“And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.” These are indeed great testimonies of our Savior, Jesus Christ.This has been a great conference and as each one of these wonderful sermons has been rendered I’ve listened with great attention, and I have made up my mind that I shall go home and be a greater man than I have ever been before. I have listened to all the instructions and the suggestions, and I am hoping that every person who has heard them has done likewise. We have heard many things, all in harmony with the teachings of Jesus Christ. They have been beautifully given by men who are dedicated to the service of the Lord. I urge you to take much thought in your return home from this conference and think again of the things that have been brought to your attention; and so far as they approach your life in any way, see if you can use them to bring you back—all of us—toward the perfection which the Lord has asked of us.Now brethren and sisters, it has been glorious to be with you. May peace be with you. May you return home in safety and find your families well. We bring to you this great conference with our love and affection and our hope that it will have been a great monument of success in your lives. And now I should like to say once more: God lives; Jesus is the Christ. And all the testimonies we have borne, and that the prayers have borne, and the singers have borne, we communicate to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.In moving toward this pulpit to assume this awesome responsibility, it is strengthening to feel a meaningful squeeze of the hand by a prophet of God: “Marvin, I love you. Marvin, I sustain you.” How do I know President Kimball’s feelings? Because he takes the time to tell me. When was the last time, you might ask? Only yesterday.One of life’s more common experiences is to be rated or graded. Youngsters learn quickly whether or not their actions are acceptable to parents. Rewards or punishments can be quickly administered in the home, and such grading or rating by parents has a lot to do with the formation of ideals in living.Those who enter school embark on a long struggle to achieve the kinds of grades that will make them acceptable to those among whom they must live and work. Those who become involved in military activities are soon caught up in a myriad of inspections and ratings.When we accept employment we quickly realize that we are graded by the responsibilities given and the wages paid. Superior work is rewarded with higher pay and greater opportunities.Those who manufacture goods or merchandise or produce food are rated by a variety of consumer organizations. “Grade A” products bring higher prices.As part of a free government, we see the grading of leaders at each election.In the media, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines provide an immediate public rating of their effectiveness. Television is particularly vulnerable to the ratings and gradings of professional organizations. Programs with poor ratings are usually doomed.And so it goes on and on in almost everything we do in life. We have a tendency to rate or grade others, and they do the same to us. If our perspective is proper, we use these ratings or gradings to motivate us to reach high levels of achievement and self-discipline. The whole concept of ratings enables us to set high goals and provides the challenge to us to achieve them.In spite of this inborn desire to achieve, there remains an area where the attainment of high or good ratings seems to be ignored. I speak of the growing numbers of movies, books, magazines, theatrical productions, and television programs where efforts to glorify immorality or violence have become predominant. “Rated R” or “Rated X” has replaced the idealism of being “Rated A.”I know that free expression is a vital part of the eternal principle of free agency and must be preserved and protected. I also know how certain forces use the freedom of speech to degrade or debase, and this constitutes perversion and enslavement. Because I recognize that there will always be opposition in all things, I suspect that we will not soon see the day when obscenity in its various forms will be entirely eliminated. But I have faith that it can be fully eliminated in the lives of quality individuals. I firmly believe that most thinking people can be inspired to strive for the  rating by choosing wholesome, worthwhile literature, art, and habits.As each of us uses our free agency to choose the material that enters our lives, we ought to recognize that the battle between “Rated A” and “Rated X” is part of the war that began in heaven and is still being fought today. The enemy seeks any strategic or tactical foothold he can gain, and any bridgehead he attains becomes the launching point for the next encounter. The number of victories we allow him can seriously affect the final outcome of the struggle.How does the adversary wage this battle? What are his tactics? Those who are fighting pornography and obscenity have helped us recognize some of his battle plans. They tell us that a person who becomes involved in obscenity soon acquires distorted views of personal conduct. He becomes unable to relate to others in a normal, healthy way. Like most other habits, an addictive effect begins to take hold of him. A diet of violence or pornography dulls the senses, and future exposures need to be rougher and more extreme. Soon the person is desensitized and is unable to react in a sensitive, caring, responsible manner, especially to those in his own home and family. Good people can become infested with this material and it can have terrifying, destructive consequences.One such young man who became a casualty of this conflict was a respected husband and community member. Someone with whom he worked brought lurid bits of pornography and passed them around the office. At first it was treated as a joke, and those who viewed them kidded each other about such things of the world. This young man, however, mainly out of curiosity, thought he should study them carefully in case he might have occasion to help others combat such evils of the world. As he looked at the items more and more frequently, he was overcome by a spirit of the adversary that he did not recognize. Soon he sought more pornographic materials from his fellow employee, and the two of them began to spend more time discussing these evil things.Still thinking he was becoming enlightened as to the ways of the world so that he could be a stronger influence for good among his friends, this young man became trapped by his own ignorance of the enemy’s ways. His associate convinced him that he should experiment with the actions portrayed in the materials he was viewing. With his spiritual sensitivity dulled, he agreed, and he approached his wife with the idea. She was surprised and shocked by his suggestions, and when he continued his insensitive pleas, she finally refused to have anything to do with him. In his distorted condition he sought gratification elsewhere, and in the end he lost her, his family, and his self-respect.The scriptures help us understand the strategy and tactics of the enemy. Nephi in the Book of Mormon saw the conflict of our day and tells us plainly:“For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good.“And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security. …“And behold, others he flattereth away, and telleth them there is no hell; and he saith unto them: I am no devil, for there is none—and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance.” The great prophet Mormon, viewing his own fallen people, wrote his son Moroni a very telling indictment when he said that because of wickedness his people were “past feeling.” (See  How tragic to reach the point where the Spirit must withdraw, and we become unable to sense or feel right from wrong.If we continue to lose skirmishes in the battle with Satan, the ultimate chains with which he grasps us will be as awful as the scriptures indicate. How awful this state is might be indicated by the words a dictionary uses to describe the word  Obscenity, it indicates, defiles, nauseates, offends, perverts, impairs, corrupts, distorts, infects, misleads, poisons, warps, weakens, and spoils. When I think of these words and then remember that the Prophet Joseph Smith admonished us to seek for things that are “virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy”  I shudder at the blindness of so many.In olden times the call to battle was the sure sound of a trumpet. The call to battle that I sound is a call to find so much that is wholesome or “Rated A” that there is no time or inclination for the carnal. It is a call to strive for a rating that can be remembered with joy forever.First I challenge parents to be concerned about what your children read or view. Good reading begins at the bedside of your little ones. Never be too busy to read wholesome bedtime stories at the close of the day. Select from the classics of children’s literature uplifting stories that can build noble ideals in your youngsters. I shall never forget the impact of a simple child’s story about a little engine that thought he could, and then he did. How often I have said to myself, “I think I can, I think I can, I think I can,” and then found growing within myself the personal power to do something good. Consider the difference in children who are cuddled and snuggled by parents at bedtime as they listen to stories from good books, and then kneel at their bedside in prayer, as compared to those who go to bed after having viewed a violent television program.Next, I challenge grandparents to foster reading programs with your grandchildren. If you are close enough to be with them, read the books to them that will help develop character and ideals. If you’re a distance away, send them books, old or new, with a personal invitation to read them and report how they like them.Next, I challenge youth to cooperate with parents who are concerned about your reading and your viewing. Be concerned yourself about what you take into your mind. Young people, you would never eat a meal of spoiled or contaminated food if you could help it, would you? Select your reading and your viewing carefully and in good taste.Next, I challenge families to foster movie viewing that is wholesome. Parents should know the movies their children attend, and children should attend only the movies they have parental permission to view. If movie viewing is an important part of your family life, and good ones are not available in commercial movie houses, wise parents will rent full-length movies that entertain and edify.Next, I challenge every Latter-day Saint to come to a knowledge and an understanding of the scriptures. These sacred books are our bulwark of defense against a cunning adversary. Each person should own and use his personal copies of the scriptures. Take them to meetings and classes. Read them in leisure moments. Develop a careful plan of study and meditation. Take them on trips as well.A friend of mine told me recently of his family vacation this past summer. A long distance was being driven, and the children, who ranged from preschoolers to high school age, grew restless. The parents had wisely taken along the scriptures, and when these restless times came, family members read chapters and then everyone talked about what had been read. The teenagers who did most of the reading quit teasing the little ones, and the little ones seemed very interested in what the older ones had to say. This family read a sizable part of the New Testament while traveling on their vacation.The battle to be “Rated A” is a battle we can win. We do so many things in life that bring success that it seems incredible how easily we let the adversary weaken us by impure materials read or viewed.My plea is that we will strive to be “Rated A” in all we do in life. We want good grades in school. We want to eat the best food we can get. I hope we will also strive to feed our minds with things that are lovely, wholesome, and praiseworthy.The desire to achieve has been placed in us by a loving Creator who honors our free agency but nonetheless beckons to us to do well. He it is who will grade our eternal report card. The adversary would weaken and dull our senses so we lose sight of the final time of rating or judging. We are in a battle with evil powers who are cunning and crafty. They can lull us and pacify us through carnal things if we are not careful. But if we take the offense in the contest and seek those things which are praiseworthy, we can build an armor that will not be pierced.So now, in the midst of this battle, let us sound our trumpets for that which is “Rated A”:  for pure actions,  for achievement, and  for approbation, even that approbation from Him whose voice can say to you: “Well done, thou good and faithful servant … enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.” For this I humbly pray in the worthy name of Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer. Amen.