You have now heard from both of my wonderful counselors. They are great men and carry much of the load of this great Church.Brethren, we cannot relax while many of our brothers and sisters and many of our young men and women are failing to participate in the programs of the Church. I ask that you again reflect on your responsibilities in this matter and take steps to accelerate this work of redemption.I knew a young mother who lost her husband by death. The family had been in poor circumstances and the insurance policy was only $2,000, but it was like a gift from heaven. The company promptly delivered the check for that amount as soon as proof of death was furnished. The young widow concluded she should save this for emergencies, and accordingly deposited it in the bank. Others knew of her savings, and one kinsman convinced her that she should lend the $2,000 to him at a high rate of interest.Years passed, and she had received neither principal nor interest. She noticed that the borrower avoided her and made evasive promises when she asked him about the money. Now she needed the money and it could not be had.“How I hate him!” she told me, and her voice breathed venom and bitterness and her dark eyes flashed. To think that an able-bodied man would defraud a young widow with a family to support! “How I loathe him!” she repeated over and over. Then I told her my Bishop Kempton story, where a man forgave the murderer of his father. She listened intently. I saw she was impressed. At the conclusion there were tears in her eyes, and she whispered: “Thank you. Thank you sincerely. Surely I, too, must forgive my enemy. I will now cleanse my heart of its bitterness. I do not expect ever to receive the money, but I leave my offender in the hands of the Lord.”Weeks later, she saw me again and confessed that those intervening weeks had been the happiest of her life. A new peace had overshadowed her and she was able to pray for the offender and forgive him, even though she never received back a single dollar. (See Spencer W. Kimball,  Bookcraft, 1969, pp. 293–94.)I saw another woman once whose little girl had been violated. “I will never forgive the culprit so long as I live,” she repeated every time it came into her mind. Vicious and ugly was the act. Anyone would be shocked and disturbed at such a crime, but to be unwilling to forgive is not Christlike. The foul deed was done and could not be undone. The culprit had been disciplined. In her bitterness the woman shriveled and shrank into a miserable person. (See  p. 294.)Contrast this woman with the Latter-day Saint girl who climbed the heights of self-control as she forgave the man who disfigured her lovely face. Let the United Press newsman, Neal Corbett, tell the story as it appeared in the pages of the San Francisco newspapers.“‘I would think he must be suffering, anybody who’s like that, we ought to feel sorry for him,’ said April Aaron of the man who had sent her to a hospital for three weeks, following a brutal … knife attack. April Aaron is a devout Mormon, 22 years of age. … She is a secretary who is as pretty as her name, but her face has just one blemish—the right eye is missing … April lost it to the ‘wildly slashing knife of a purse snatcher,’ near San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park while en route to an MIA dance. … She also suffered deep slashes on her left arm and right leg during a struggle with her assailant, after she tripped and fell in her efforts to elude him just one block from the Mormon chapel. …“‘I ran for a block and a half before he caught me. You can’t run very fast on high heels,’ April said with a smile. Slashes on her leg were so severe [that] doctors feared for a time it would need amputation. The sharp edge of the weapon could damage neither April’s vivaciousness, nor her compassion. ‘… I wish that somebody could do something for him, to help him. He should have some treatment. Who knows what leads a person to do a thing like this? If they don’t find him, he’s likely to do it again.’“… April Aaron has won the hearts of the people in the San Francisco Bay area with her courage and good spirit in face of tragedy. Her room at St. Francis hospital was banked with flowers throughout her stay and attendants said they couldn’t recall when anyone received more cards and expressions of good wishes.” (Cited in  p. 294.)The following is taken from a Los Angeles newspaper account attesting to the strength of people who have risen above the sordid revenge and ugly bitterness which so often prevail in such circumstances:“Three men were apprehended for the kidnap-murder of Marvin W. Merrill of Los Angeles. I knew Marvin personally—this young man grew up in my community—from his childhood. … Angelo B. Rollins, a black postal employee, was selected by the mail-carriers at Wagner Station to represent them by reading a eulogy at the funeral services. Elder Merrill had served the postal department for more than 20 years. Scattered throughout the chapel and overflow room were scores of postmen who came directly from their postal routes, still in their uniforms. … Rollins said: ‘No man can condone the actions of the perpetrators who ended his life. These vicious and vile acts that make us bow our heads in shame, point an accusing finger at innocent millions as a nation of offenders. In my sinful weakness, I would have rent them limb from limb,’” said this man, “‘but the still small voice of the Master said, “Vengeance is Mine.” [see   … This Mormon Elder, Marvin Merrill, firm in the strength of his faith, and steeped in the teachings of Christ, would probably have said of them, as did our Savior at Calvary, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.”  (Cited in  p. 295.)Once I heard a neighbor say, “I hate those people across the border. They are dirty men. They have done so much evil in the world.” This man had not stopped to think that among that people were numerous good men, honest and upright. They were not responsible for what the leaders of the country had done. All men were not as vicious or cruel. They should not be judged by the evil deeds of their fellow nationals. Most men were grieved by the kinds of evil committed.Another neighbor was bitter against the people across his boundary. He often repeated, “I hate the men over there. They have been cruel, vicious, and unrelenting.”I said to this neighbor, “I personally love that people. Only a limited number were cruel and vicious. There are mighty good people among them, some of them lovable sons of God.”I knew of two soldiers on a fierce battlefront, when during a temporary armistice in the war, one young man crossed the battle line and asked his antagonist, “Is there a Mormon elder in your lines?”The other answered, “Yes, I am a Mormon.”He then asked, “Would you come behind our trench lines and help me administer to and bless a wounded buddy?” Across the “no-man’s land” they walked together, these two men, former enemies. One anointed and the other sealed the anointing, and the wounded chap was blessed. A great peace entered their souls. The other man returned to his front lines to his duty, and he also had a new feeling of peace.Of course, we do not hold all men responsible for what individuals do. We learn to forgive.I had another experience in a very important area in the Church. Unfortunately, two Church leaders had become embroiled in a feud and neither would yield.I had held a stake conference all day and had gone without my supper and had traveled over a range of mountains to meet these unhappy people.Hour after hour we served, and begged, and endeavored to convince them to change their minds and get them together, all to no avail.Eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve o’clock, one, and two o’clock and the night was going fast, and I was very, very weary. I flipped open my Doctrine and Covenants again. Automatically it turned to page 105 and I read it to them. They almost gasped for wonder, and this is what we read:“Nevertheless, he has sinned; but verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death.“My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another and forgave not one another in their hearts; and for this evil they were afflicted and sorely chastened.“Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin.“I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.“And ye ought to say in your hearts—let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds.“And him that repenteth not of his sins, and confesseth them not, ye shall bring before the church, and do with him as the scripture saith unto you, either by commandment or by revelation.” I could feel the two antagonists were yielding, and I read the Lord’s Prayer, wherein He said,“But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do. …“For your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.“After this manner … pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.“Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.“Give us this day our daily bread.“And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.“And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.” As though he needed to refresh their minds, the Lord returned to the theme:“For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Hard to do? Of course. The Lord never promised an easy road, nor a simple gospel, nor low standards, nor a low norm. The price is high, but the goods attained are worth all they cost. The Lord himself turned the other cheek; he suffered himself to be buffeted and beaten without remonstrance; he suffered every indignity and yet spoke no word of condemnation. And his question to all of us is: “Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be?” And his answer to us is: “Even as I am.” In his  William Jennings Bryan wrote:“The most difficult of all the virtues to cultivate is the forgiving spirit. Revenge seems to be natural with man; it is human to want to get even with an enemy. It has even been popular to boast of vindictiveness; it was once inscribed on a man’s monument that he had repaid both friends and enemies more than he had received. This was not the spirit of Christ.” (Independence, Zion’s Printing and Publishing Company, 1925, p. 35.)If we have been wronged or injured, forgiveness means to blot it completely from our minds. To forgive and forget is an ageless counsel. “To be wronged or robbed,” said the Chinese philosopher Confucius, “is nothing unless you continue to remember it.”The injuries inflicted by neighbors, by relatives, or by spouses are generally of a minor nature, at least at first. We must forgive them. Since the Lord is so merciful, must not we be? “Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy”  is another version of the Golden Rule. “All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men,” said the Lord, “but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.”  If the Lord is so gracious and kind, we must be also.“When such people as the widow, Bishop Kempton, April Aaron and others grievously wronged can forgive; when men like Stephen and Paul can forgive vicious attacks against themselves and set the example of forgiveness; then all men should be able to forgive in their reach for perfection.“Across the barren deserts of hate and greed and grudge is the beautiful valley of paradise. We read in the papers and hear on TV constantly that the world ‘is in an awful mess.’ Not true! The world is still most beautiful. It is man who is off center. The sun still illumines the day and gives light and life to all things; the moon still brightens the night; oceans still feed the world and provide transportation; rivers still drain the land, and provide irrigation water to nourish crops. Even the ravages of time have not sloughed off the majesty of the mountains. Flowers still bloom and birds still sing, and children still laugh and play. What is wrong with the world is man-made.“It can be done. Man can conquer self. Man can overcome. Man can forgive all who have trespassed against him and go on to receive  in this life and eternal life in the world to come.” ( p. 300.)Now we come to a realization that the kingdom of God and the church of Jesus Christ constitute a world church. It is fast coming to have world dominion. We, its members, must learn to contain ourselves and love all mankind, all our brothers and sisters of every nation and clime. Certainly we shall be wholly without enmity or grudge or ill feeling. We must forgive to be forgiven. Let God be the righteous judge.We shall love all our neighbors as ourselves and God will bless all of us. Jesus Christ, also our Lord and Savior, is the Lord of this world. God bless us that we may follow closely his dictates, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.First, I should like to tell you about a different kind of classroom with a unique group of teachers. The students have come from a state-run shelter for juvenile offenders of the law to be instructed by prison inmates serving life terms or more than twenty-five years.Let me describe a group of recent participants in what is known as the Juvenile Awareness Program. There were twenty of them, including several as young as fourteen with tattoos on their arms, and all had had minor scrapes with the law, ranging from break-ins to shoplifting and assault. They arrived by bus and strutted cockily into the prison confines. Three hours later they walked out timidly—some shaking and near tears.Their change in attitude came after their “teachers” gave them firsthand information about prison life. In the vilest of language, and with frequent threats of violence (although never carried out), the class members were transformed from fidgeting, squirming, disinterested youths to a spellbound, captive audience.Let me repeat some of the words of the “instructors” which brought about this change.“I’m 45 years old now and I know I’m never going to see the streets again,” said a convicted murderer. “We’re all dying to get out and you guys are pounding on the doors, saying, ‘Let us in.’”Another statement: “The Hollywood image of prison doesn’t tell you about gang rapes and suicides. That happens all the time here. And you little punks are fresh meat.”A convicted kidnapper told the boys: “I’ve been in here for 16 years and you guys can’t sit still for a couple of hours. If you’re going to be criminals, you better get used to someone telling you what to do all the time.” ( July 19, 1977, pp. 1–2.)It is interesting to observe that whether we are in prison or out, there is always someone telling us what to do. The difference lies in who is telling us and what they are wanting us to do. Therein lies the difference between happiness and unhappiness, eternal life with God or some lesser final judgment. The difference is in  to the right voice and to the right principle.Consider with me some things a man needs for happiness. Since all of you are members of the church of Jesus Christ and hold the priesthood, we can talk about your particular needs, for you already have some of the prerequisites for a happy life. You are most blessed to hold the priesthood of God. You know who you are, why you are upon the earth, and what you must do to be successful and happy and to enjoy salvation and exaltation—to prove yourselves by doing all things which the Lord God shall command. Many men in the world today would find the happiness they are seeking if they had that knowledge. Now, in addition to knowing that he is a child of God, that he holds the priesthood—the power to act in God’s name—a man needs companionship. What a tremendous source of strength it is to belong to a great brotherhood of priesthood holders where all are engaged in works of righteousness to help build the kingdom of God. But in order to enjoy full fellowship, a man must observe the rules. There are certain requirements to be met and certain rules to obey:“We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.” Another thing a man needs is the love and companionship of family and friends. This too must be  by compliance with or  to certain rules of behavior. You young men should be kind and considerate of the girls you choose for friends, girls who love the Lord and are preparing themselves to be mothers of the spirit children of God. You must be worthy of them by good, clean living and by obeying the commandments.Men who are married should be thoughtful and kind to their wives and children and never use their priesthood unrighteously. It is appalling to read of the wife and child abuse that is far too prevalent, even in our Latter-day Saint families. Someone wrote a letter the other day to the editor of a local newspaper to express shock that in a predominantly Mormon community, where family life is stressed, there should be so many referrals of child abuse. Surely we should follow the Savior’s example in showing love for our wives and children.Also, a man finds happiness through his chosen vocation. It should make us happy just to know that we have the freedom to choose what we want to do to earn a living.When young men come to me for advice in choosing their life’s work or their careers, I always tell them that they should choose something they will enjoy doing, and then do the very best they can and be honest, honorable, and upright in their dealings and in the service they give—to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, knowing that all these other things will be added unto them.One business executive, in championing the free enterprise system, had this advice for young business managers:“Work [diligently]. Be at the right place at the right time. Maintain a degree of humility. Develop an inner drive and a competitive desire to excel rather than just get along. Develop your common sense.” Your  to these business guidelines will make for success and All too frequently today we read or hear about dishonesty in government, in business firms, in trade unions, and in other areas of endeavor. In every case there has been a violation of some moral code or disobedience to law. All too often there is little or no remorse. In addition, there are too many who have little regard for human life. Some criminals today even go on lecture tours or star in movies at great financial gain. This is most appalling indeed.A recent news story told of a man who was released from prison after serving a sentence for a robbery that he did not commit. He finally convinced the officials that he had an alibi—he was robbing another store 260 miles away.Permissiveness by parents is responsible for much juvenile crime. The Church has sponsored two slogans which bear repeating: “Parents, it is ten o’clock. Do you know where your children are tonight?” and “Children, do you know where your parents are tonight?” Too many parents are leaving their responsibilities to television sets, which act as baby-sitters, and often do irreparable damage.The following story is a sad commentary on our times. A fifteen-year-old boy was accused of murdering his elderly next-door neighbor in cold blood, and his attorney was pleading an insanity defense because he committed the crime while under the influence of “involuntary television intoxication.” A pretrial brief stated that “through ‘the excessive and long-continued use of this intoxicant [television], a mental condition of insanity was produced.’ That condition was ‘a disease of the mind’ … and left [the boy] incapable of realizing ‘the criminality of his conduct’ and ‘unable to conform to the law.’” ( Aug. 18, 1977, p. A4.)Children must learn  and parents must exact obedience from them. Love your children, let them know that you love them; but remember that it is no favor to a child to let him do things he should not do. I have seen the results of many surveys and know from personal experience that children want some direction and control in their lives and want to live up to the expectations of those who are responsible for directing their lives.The laws of God and the laws of nature and the laws of the land are made for the benefit of man—for his comfort, enjoyment, safety, and well-being—and it is up to the individual to learn these laws and to determine whether or not he will enjoy these benefits by obeying the laws and by keeping the commandments. To be happy and successful we must obey the laws and regulations pertaining to our activities. These laws will function either to our joy and well-being or to our detriment and sorrow, according to our actions.How often do you hear people say they don’t want to be told what to do? Young people particularly often rebel against conforming to the rules and regulations. I have had some of them come to me and say that they are fed up with being told, “You have to do this,” and “You have to do that.” They say they want to decide for themselves what they want to do.My response is that they are free to do exactly what they choose to do (as long as it does not infringe upon the rights of others), but there are certain consequences which follow all our actions, and they must be prepared to take those consequences.We are told: “I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.” One of the Ten Commandments states: “Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.” A good example of this is found in a little story which I heard recently. A young boy was playing baseball with his friends when his mother’s voice came loud and clear, calling, “Charlie, Charlie!” He instantly threw down his bat, picked up his jacket and cap, and started for home.“Don’t go yet; finish the game!” cried the other players.“I must go right this minute. I told my mother I would come when she called,” was Charlie’s response.“Pretend you didn’t hear,” said the boys.“But I did hear,” said Charlie.“She won’t know you did.”“But I know it, and I’ve got to go.”One of the boys finally said, “Oh, let him go. You can’t change his mind. He’s tied to his mother’s apron string. He’s such a baby he runs the minute she calls.”As he ran off, Charlie called back, “I don’t call it babyish to keep one’s word to his mother. I call it manly, and the boy who doesn’t keep his word to her will never keep it to anyone else.”Years later Charlie became a prosperous businessman and president of a large corporation. His associates always said “His word is his bond,” and during a press interview on one occasion he was asked how he acquired such a reputation. His response: “I never broke my word when a boy, no matter how great a temptation, and the habits formed then have clung to me through life.” (Adapted from “True and Faithful,” in  Salt Lake City: Juvenile Instructor Office, 1891, p. 122.)As priesthood holders we must be just as diligent in keeping our covenants and magnifying our callings. We have pledged to keep the commandments, and God is constantly  us for one reason or another. When his voice calls, let us drop the bat, or the golf club, or the fishing pole, or whatever else, and hurry to do his bidding. He will reward us with success and happiness as we seek first to build his kingdom.Listen to a real example of this. Elder Richard G. Scott of the First Quorum of the Seventy graduated from George Washington University in 1950 with a degree in mechanical engineering and then left immediately on a thirty-one month mission to Uruguay. He recalls: “Professors and friends tried to dissuade me from accepting a mission call, counseling that it would severely hamper my budding engineering career. But shortly after my mission, I was selected for the infant Naval Nuclear Program. (The field was top secret and initial training was given by the pioneer scientists at Oakridge, Tennessee.) At a meeting I was sent to direct, I found that one of the professors who had counseled me against going on a mission was in a significantly lesser program position than I. It was a powerful testimony to me of how the Lord blessed me as I put my priorities straight.” (May 1977, pp. 102–3.)I know it is difficult sometimes to accept such philosophy when we see prominent and seemingly successful people “reach the top,” so to speak, when we know they are not thoroughly honest or dependable and have sometimes used devious means to gain their ends. However, I would remind us all that they are—or will be—eventually brought to justice, with their names often splashed mercilessly before a critical public; and I feel sure there comes a time when they will feel that the humiliation for them and their often innocent family was not worth their disobedience to law and order and sound moral behavior.There are lessons for us to learn from the experiences of others, and we can be spared much pain and anguish if we can only apply these lessons in our lives. We are not left without guidance. We have the gospel to guide us at all times and in all things—whether it be in spiritual or temporal affairs.Satan has vowed to thwart the purposes of God, and he uses all sorts of devices and deceptions to mislead us. If we listen and respond we can lose virtue, self-esteem, respect of others, and even eternal life, in addition to suffering disease and death of our mortal bodies.Now if we could just learn to live the Golden Rule and let compassion and the kind of love of which our Savior spoke control our actions, we would automatically obey all of the other commandments. We would not steal, or kill, or bear false witness, or commit adultery, or covet. We would honor our parents, keep the Sabbath Day holy, and show proper reverence for the name of the Lord.But as simple as it is to keep the commandments, there are some who find the temptations too alluring, or who are deceived by that cunning devil. However, we are most fortunate to know that for all who transgress there is redemption through the glorious principle of repentance. The Lord has told us how to repent, and he has promised us forgiveness. He said, “By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them.” He has also admonished us that we should forgive all men their trespasses. Each of us has need for repentance, and each of us should extend the hand of love and fellowship to the repentant sinner.Now, we who hold the priesthood must lead out in setting an example before the world in repenting of our sins, in extending forgiveness to others, and in obeying the commandments of God. We must help the world to prepare for the second coming of our Savior. Let us not be as the people in Noah’s time or as the foolish virgins. They were not prepared, for they knew not when the flood would come nor when the Bridegroom cometh.We must prepare now, and as we read in Matthew, “Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. … Therefore be ye also ready.” I cannot overemphasize the importance of each and every one of us living so as to be prepared and worthy to meet the Savior and assist him in his glorious and triumphant work. I cannot help but feel that the words of the Lord spoken to the Prophet Joseph Smith in a revelation given to him on June 22, 1834, apply to us today:“But behold, they have not learned to be  to the things which I required at their hands. …“And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer.”  italics added.)We do not suggest blind obedience, but obedience by  Adam and Eve learned this lesson shortly after leaving the Garden of Eden. We read:“And he [the Lord] gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam [having faith in God] was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.“And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.” May that be sufficient reason for us to keep the commandments. May we increase in faith until we can say, with Adam, “We keep the commandments because the Lord has given them.”Let us always remember, and never forget, that we hold the priesthood of God. We are his spirit children; we have the true and everlasting gospel and a prophet of God—even President Spencer W. Kimball—to guide us in these latter days.  I promise you that as we do this we will be blessed. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.