My dear brothers and sisters, it is an honor to he at this conference. And it is an honor to serve as a missionary in Australia.This marks the 126th year that the Church has been in Australia.The two missionaries who introduced the gospel to Australia were John Murdock and Charles Wandell, who arrived in Sydney on October 30, 1851. Brother Murdock was fifty-nine years of age at the time and was one of the early stalwarts of the Church. He was in the first group to be ordained high priests by Joseph Smith. He was called on two of his missions by revelations which are in the Doctrine and Covenants. (See   His wife died, leaving him twins only six hours old. These were the twins that the Prophet Joseph Smith received into his home to raise.For a time he lived in the home of Joseph Smith and relates this incident: “During the winter that I boarded with Brother Joseph … we had a number of prayer meetings, in the Prophet’s chamber. … In one of those meetings the Prophet told us, ‘If we would humble ourselves before God, and exercise strong faith, we should see the face of the Lord.’ And about midday the visions of my mind were opened, and the eyes of my understanding were enlightened, and I saw the form of a man, most lovely, the visage of his face was sound and fair as the sun. His hair a bright silver grey, curled in a most majestic form; His eyes a keen penetrating blue, and the skin of his neck a most beautiful white and he was covered from the neck to the feet with a loose garment, pure white: Whiter than any garment I have ever before seen. His countenance was most penetrating, and yet most lovely. And while I was endeavoring to comprehend the whole personage from head to feet it slipped from me, and the vision was closed up. But it left on my mind the impression of love, for months, that I never before felt to that degree.” (John Murdock,  p. 26.)Such was the man who opened the work of the gospel of Jesus Christ in Australia in this dispensation. Through the early years of the Church in Australia many joined the Church and then immigrated to either Canada or the United States. In 1955 President David O. McKay toured the country and advised the Saints to stay and build Zion in their land.The next visit of a prophet in Australia came in February 1976 when President Spencer W. Kimball held the first area conferences. President Kimball’s message was “Grow!” And the Church is growing in Australia as well as elsewhere in the world.The reason for that growth is because of that which happens within any individual who looks into the Church or examines its doctrines. Perhaps I can explain it in this way. In Matthew, chapter sixteen, the Savior asked his disciples: “Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.“And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.” Although Peter walked and talked with the Savior and had observed many of his miracles, yet when he said, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God,” the Savior pointed out that it wasn’t flesh and blood that revealed this to Peter, but his Father in heaven.This tells us that there is a more certain way of knowing than actually seeing with our eyes; for there were many who saw Jesus Christ but knew him not as the Son of God. Those that did know him knew him because it was revealed to them by our Father in heaven.This witness of the Spirit is mentioned in Luke, chapter twenty-four, as two of the disciples were walking along the road to a village called Emmaus. The Savior himself came and walked and talked with them, but they did “not know him” until right at the very end when their eyes were opened and they knew him. Verse 32 says: “And they said one to another, did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?” With all the logic and outward evidences of the truthfulness of the gospel, it still comes down to the witness of the Spirit.“Did not our heart burn within us?” is as applicable today to a person seeking the gospel of Jesus Christ as it was during the time of Christ or in John Murdock’s day.In modern revelation the Lord has established a spiritual test to find truth.He says in the ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants simply: “But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right.” The words “you shall feel that it is right” refer to a feeling of peace and warmth, a feeling that touches the soul. For an investigator of the truth, this feeling begins to come when the missionaries come and leave their message. They can feel it in the home after the missionaries leave. They can feel it in the congregations of the Saints; and they can feel it as they read and study and pray about the message. It is a feeling that is unique in its peace and joy because it emanates from Jesus Christ. It is that feeling which brings a greater knowledge and a more sure witness than even flesh and bones.A recent convert from Canberra, Australia, says the following: “I was born into a religious family where religion was taken seriously. I had a strict Christian upbringing. However, I drifted away from the church at about twenty years of age when I left home to attend teachers college.“From that time on I felt an emptiness of purpose in some way, and each year or so would find me searching out and studying a new spiritual creed. I studied yoga and practiced meditation, read about Hinduism, Buddhism, Zen Buddhism, and most of the Protestant religions and Judaism. Somehow none of these held out anything I was seeking. Then I stopped searching, and when the elders came calling, I had mixed feelings about letting them in. I did not want yet another fruitless search, but I thought it only reasonable to hear the message and then decide. For a few lessons I was not convinced that there was anything different in the lessons from what I had already heard elsewhere. Then slowly, through the patience of the elders, I began to get the feeling that all they were saying was really true. They urged me to pray frequently, which I did; but still I was not sure. They explained how the Holy Ghost could come into one’s heart, and one could perhaps feel a warm glow inside. This was rather hard for me to imagine, but I believed them.“One night the elders challenged me to take baptism the very next Saturday. I was surprised and felt I wasn’t ready, but I did agree to be baptized a week later, giving myself more time for questions and prayer. Then Elder Hurd asked Elder Nelson if he would bear his testimony to me. He did it so fervently that about halfway through I felt a warm spot in my heart which seemed to be coming from Elder Nelson; and as he spoke, it increased in size and intensity like a small cloud inside of me.“When he had finished, both elders assured me that they had felt the presence of the Holy Ghost, but I didn’t tell them of my experience until a few days later. I felt too overcome to speak of it. Before they left they asked me to read Third Nephi, chapters 11 to 26, in the Book of Mormon before going to bed that night. As soon as they went out the door, I read avidly, and as I did, the warm glow returned to me and I needed no more convincing.”Not every experience will be just like this; but to greater or lesser degree, that same Spirit will come into the life of every soul who desires to know the truth. Each member of the Church and each soul who sincerely investigates the teachings by study, prayer, and attending church will receive his answer.It is as simple as that. Flesh and blood do not reveal it, but our Father which is in heaven. At some time in the investigation process, this confirming spirit will come into the soul, and truth will be the result. Should there be someone watching or listening at this time who is thinking of looking into the Church or studying its doctrines, we offer this to you. There is nothing complicated or difficult about it. It requires only a person who desires to know the truth and who is willing to turn to the Lord with all his heart and ask about that which he reads and hears.I, too, have felt that Spirit; I, too, know that God lives and that Jesus the Christ is his Son. This is not my philosophy; this is not my belief. This is a knowledge borne by the Spirit. This Church is true. Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. Spencer W. Kimball is a prophet of God today. We are in the Lord’s service. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My brothers, sisters, and friends: What Elder Brockbank has just told us is true. I know it, and you know it. May I continue on beyond what he said.As I read the first three verses of the first chapter of Acts, a question comes to my mind. Luke wrote:“Of all that Jesus began both to do and teach,“Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen:“To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.” Following his resurrection Jesus must have received from God additional power and knowledge much beyond what he knew and experienced in the flesh. Yet we find practically nothing of the things he taught during the forty days he instructed his disciples following his resurrection. What did he teach them?We have much of what Jesus taught during the three years of his earth ministry. But singularly, we have little of the teachings of the  Christ. Surely those ideas and concepts were more important than what he taught during mortality!I err, however, if I give the impression that we know nothing of what Jesus taught during that forty-day period. Those doctrines are given in a guarded fashion by his apostles as they wrote the saints. Not everyone would understand their writings, but certainly those to whom they wrote would understand. An example is given in John’s first letter, chapter 2, verse 20:“But ye have an unction [or anointing] from the Holy One, and ye know all things” Which church today understands and uses an anointing to teach its members all things as further explained in verse 27?“But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him” Now this statement, its meaning hidden from the present Christian world, must have had important meaning for those to whom John wrote. Devout members of our Church will recognize and understand this doctrine in the same way the ancient Christians did.Another example is found in the teachings of Paul in 2 Corinthians, chapter 1, verses 21–22:“Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed us, is God;“Who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.” Now the sealing power mentioned by Paul was given to Peter, James, and John on the Mount of Transfiguration. This same sealing power restored by Elijah the prophet was later given by Jesus to all his apostles as recorded in Matthew 18, verse 18:“Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.” The instructions and teachings of Jesus following his crucifixion were so sacred that they were not reduced to writing. Nevertheless, hints were given to faithful members of the early church as the apostles urged them to be more faithful in the discharge of their Christian duties.What did Jesus do between his death and his resurrection? We know, for example, that he did not immediately return to his Heavenly Father. John records in chapter 20, verse 17, how the risen Jesus told Mary Magdalene:“Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.” If Jesus wasn’t with his Father in heaven during that time, where was he and what did he do?During that period between death and resurrection, Jesus went into the spirit world, as he had promised the thieves on the cross. There he organized the preaching of the gospel to the spirits in prison. Peter wrote in his first letter, chapter 3, verses 18 and 19:“For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened [that is, being made alive] by the Spirit:“By which also [that is, in this spirit condition] he went and preached unto the spirits in prison.” President Joseph F. Smith, in his remarkable vision of this visit, wrote in verses 29–30 in the Pearl of Great Price:“And as I wondered, my eyes were opened, and my understanding quickened, and I perceived that the Lord went not in person among the wicked and the disobedient [in the spirit world] who had rejected the truth [while living on the earth], to teach them;“But behold, from among the righteous [in that part of the spirit world], he organized his forces and appointed messengers, clothed with power and authority, and commissioned them to go forth and carry the light of the gospel to them that were in darkness, even to all the spirits of men; and thus was the gospel preached to the dead.” Since “God is no respecter of persons”  it would be unjust to condemn those who may not have had a full opportunity while living on the earth to hear the gospel preached. Some were born at times and places where it was impossible for them to hear the message of salvation. To condemn them without an opportunity to accept the gospel while living would be unfair. Salvation for the dead was one of those concepts taught during the forty days following the resurrection of Jesus.Peter explained that the reason Jesus went to those spirits in prison was to bring them the gospel. This is found in his first letter, chapter 4, verse 6:“For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh [that is, be judged on the same basis and principles as were men and women who live on the earth], but live according to God in the spirit” that is, to receive salvation by accepting earthly ordinances in the spirit world after those ordinances had been done for them by proxy on the earth.This principle of salvation for all mankind reflects the mercy, the kindness, and the love of God for all his children. Isn’t it strange that such a noble and important principle should be forgotten and no longer practiced in the present Christian world?Such practices were part and parcel of the early Christian church. The work of salvation for the dead was such a common practice that Paul even used it as a proof that resurrection would come to all. In his first letter to the Corinthians, in chapter 15, verse 29, he wrote:“Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?” Nothing could be clearer that proxy ordinance work for the dead was practiced by the early Christians.This lack of knowledge in Christianity today is proof to me that an apostasy from the truth has occurred. As Isaiah wrote in chapter 24, verse 5:“The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.” There was need to restore these doctrines and ordinances. Wise men were not able to restore these practices during the Reformation or since. These doctrines came from heaven by a restoration of the gospel. Nor could Joseph Smith of himself have thought out these doctrines. They were part of the stone cut out of the mountain without hands that would roll forth to fill the earth. (See That kingdom is now rolling forth. There are prophets again on the earth who teach those same sacred principles revealed by Jesus during the forty days immediately following his resurrection. A realization of this fact is a vivid warning to all present members of the Church to qualify themselves by righteous living to receive these blessings. They will be revealed to the righteous who will believe and practice them.We can see a hastening of the work today as the world shows a remarkable upsurge of interest in genealogy. It comes so naturally that few can see the hand of the Lord in it, but it is there. People interested in genealogy will undoubtedly ask the question, “Why?” If they will only search for an answer to that question, they will find the restored gospel and receive power from on high just as did those ancient members of the church of Jesus Christ.We see an increased velocity in temple building in the Church and an increased activity in the work of salvation for the dead. It is a warning to members of the Church to take this work more seriously. It is a continuation and a perfecting of missionary activity; in fact, it is a vital part of it. To neglect this responsibility is to endanger one’s own salvation.You can feel the urgency of this work in the air. You can see the hastening hand of the Lord at work. You can sense the necessity to get on with this work. I feel I must teach it wherever I go so that member and nonmember alike may search for that knowledge, which is neither cryptic nor hidden to those who know and love the Lord. This is my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.