What I shall say I could say much better if we were alone, just the two of us. It would be easier also if we had come to know one another, and had that kind of trust which makes it possible to talk of serious, even sacred things.If we were that close, because of the nature of what I shall say, I would study you carefully as I spoke. If there should be the slightest disinterest or distraction, the subject would quickly be changed to more ordinary things.I have not, to my knowledge, in my ministry said anything more important. I intend to talk about the Lord, Jesus Christ, about what He really did—and why it matters now.One may ask, “Aside from the influence He has had on society, what effect can He have on me individually?”To answer that question I ask, have you ever been hard-pressed financially? Have you ever been confronted with an unexpected expense, a mortgage coming due, with really no idea how to pay it?Such an experience, however unpleasant, can be, in the eternal scheme of things, very, very useful. If you miss that lesson you may have to make it up before you are spiritually mature, like a course that was missed or a test that was failed.That may be what the Lord had in mind when He said,“It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.” Those who have faced a foreclosure know that one looks helplessly around, hoping for someone, anyone, to come to the rescue.This lesson is so valuable because there is a spiritual account, with a balance kept and a settlement due, that no one of us will escape.To understand this spiritual debt we must speak of such intangibles as love, faith, mercy, justice.Although these virtues are both silent and invisible, surely I do not need to persuade you that they are real. We learn of them by processes that are often silent and invisible as well. .We become so accustomed to learning through our physical senses—by sight and sound and smell, by taste and touch—that some of us seem to learn in no other way.But there are spiritual things that are not registered that way at all. Some things we simply feel, not as we feel something we touch, but as we feel something we There are things, spiritual things, that are registered in our minds and recorded in our memories as pure knowledge. A knowledge of “things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass.”  see also  and As surely as we know about material things, we can come to know of spiritual things.Each of us, without exception, one day will settle that spiritual account. We will, that day, face a judgment for our doings in mortal life and face a foreclosure of sorts.One thing I know: we will be justly dealt with. Justice, the eternal law of justice, will be the measure against which we settle this account.Justice is usually pictured holding a set of scales and blindfolded against the possibility that she may be partial or become sympathetic. There is no sympathy in justice alone—only justice! Our lives will be weighed on the scales of justice.The Prophet Alma declared:“Justice claimeth the creature and executeth the law, and the law inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works of justice would be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.” I commend to you the reading of the 42nd chapter of Alma. It reveals the place of justice and should confirm that the poet spoke the truth when he said, “In the course of justice [only,] none of us should see salvation.” (Shakespeare,  IV. i. 199–200.)Let me tell you a story—a parable.There once was a man who wanted something very much. It seemed more important than anything else in his life. In order for him to have his desire, he incurred a great debt.He had been warned about going into that much debt, and particularly about his creditor. But it seemed so important for him to do what he wanted to do and to have what he wanted right now. He was sure he could pay for it later.So he signed a contract. He would pay it off some time along the way. He didn’t worry too much about it, for the due date seemed such a long time away. He had what he wanted now, and that was what seemed important.The creditor was always somewhere in the back of his mind, and he made token payments now and again, thinking somehow that the day of reckoning really would never come.But as it always does, the day came, and the contract fell due. The debt had not been fully paid. His creditor appeared and demanded payment in full.Only then did he realize that his creditor not only had the power to repossess all that he owned, but the power to cast him into prison as well.“I cannot pay you, for I have not the power to do so,” he confessed.“Then,” said the creditor, “we will exercise the contract, take your possessions, and you shall go to prison. You agreed to that. It was your choice. You signed the contract, and now it must be enforced.”“Can you not extend the time or forgive the debt?” the debtor begged. “Arrange some way for me to keep what I have and not go to prison. Surely you believe in mercy? Will you not show mercy?”The creditor replied, “Mercy is always so one-sided. It would serve only you. If I show mercy to you, it will leave me unpaid. It is justice I demand. Do you believe in justice?”“I believed in justice when I signed the contract,” the debtor said. “It was on my side then, for I thought it would protect me. I did not need mercy then, nor think I should need it ever. Justice, I thought, would serve both of us equally as well.”“It is justice that demands that you pay the contract or suffer the penalty,” the creditor replied. “That is the law. You have agreed to it and that is the way it must be. Mercy cannot rob justice.”There they were: One meting out justice, the other pleading for mercy. Neither could prevail except at the expense of the other.“If you do not forgive the debt there will be no mercy,” the debtor pleaded.“If I do, there will be no justice,” was the reply.Both laws, it seemed, could not be served. They are two eternal ideals that appear to contradict one another. Is there no way for justice to be fully served, and mercy also?There is a way! The law of justice  be fully satisfied and mercy  be fully extended—but it takes someone else. And so it happened this time.The debtor had a friend. He came to help. He knew the debtor well. He knew him to be shortsighted. He thought him foolish to have gotten himself into such a predicament. Nevertheless, he wanted to help because he loved him. He stepped between them, faced the creditor, and made this offer.“I will pay the debt if you will free the debtor from his contract so that he may keep his possessions and not go to prison.”As the creditor was pondering the offer, the mediator added, “You demanded justice. Though he cannot pay you, I will do so. You will have been justly dealt with and can ask no more. It would not be just.”And so the creditor agreed.The mediator turned then to the debtor. “If I pay your debt, will you accept me as your creditor?”“Oh yes, yes,” cried the debtor. “You save me from prison and show mercy to me.”“Then,” said the benefactor, “you will pay the debt to me and I will set the terms. It will not be easy, but it will be possible. I will provide a way. You need not go to prison.”And so it was that the creditor was paid in full. He had been justly dealt with. No contract had been broken. The debtor, in turn, had been extended mercy. Both laws stood fulfilled. Because there was a mediator, justice had claimed its full share, and mercy was fully satisfied.Each of us lives on a kind of spiritual credit. One day the account will be closed, a settlement demanded. However casually we may view it now, when that day comes and the foreclosure is imminent, we will look around in restless agony for someone, anyone, to help us.And, by eternal law, mercy cannot be extended save there be one who is both willing and able to assume our debt and pay the price and arrange the terms for our redemption.Unless there is a mediator, unless we have a friend, the full weight of justice untempered, unsympathetic, must, positively must fall on us. The full recompense for every transgression, however minor or however deep, will be exacted from us to the uttermost farthing.But know this: Truth, glorious truth, proclaims there is such a Mediator.“For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus.” Through Him mercy can be fully extended to each of us without offending the eternal law of justice.This truth is the very root of Christian doctrine. You may know much about the gospel as it branches out from there, but if you only know the branches and those branches do not touch that root, if they have been cut free from that truth, there will be no life nor substance nor redemption in them.The extension of mercy will not be automatic. It will be through covenant with Him. It will be on His terms, His generous terms, which include, as an absolute essential, baptism by immersion for the remission of sins.All mankind can be protected by the law of justice, and at once each of us individually may be extended the redeeming and healing blessing of mercy.A knowledge of what I am talking about is of a very practical value. It is very useful and very helpful personally; it opens the way for each of us to keep his spiritual accounts paid up.You, perhaps, are among those troubled people. When you come face to face with yourself in those moments of quiet contemplation—that many of us try to avoid—are there some unsettled things that bother you?Do you have something on your conscience? Are you still, to one degree or another, guilty of anything small or large?We often try to solve guilt problems by telling one another that they don’t matter. But somehow, deep inside, we don’t believe one another. Nor do we believe ourselves if we say it. We know better. They do matter!Our transgressions are all added to our account, and one day if it is not properly settled, each of us, like Belshazzar of Babylon, will be weighed in the balance and found wanting.There is a Redeemer, a Mediator, who stands both willing and able to appease the demands of justice and extend mercy to those who are penitent, for “He offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered.” Already He has accomplished the redemption of all mankind from mortal death; resurrection is extended to all without condition.He also makes possible redemption from the second death, which is the spiritual death, which is separation from the presence of our Heavenly Father. This redemption can come only to those who are clean, for no unclean thing can dwell in the presence of God.If justice decrees that we are not eligible because of our transgression, mercy provides a probation, a penitence, a preparation to enter in.I have carried with me a great desire to bear testimony of the Lord, Jesus Christ. I have yearned to tell you in as simple terms as I can, what He did, and who He is.Although I know how poor mere words can be, I know also that such feelings are often carried by the spirit, even without words.At times I struggle under the burden of imperfections. Nevertheless, because I know that He lives, there is a supreme recurring happiness and joy.There is one place where I am particularly vulnerable—when I know that I have abused someone, or caused them hurt, or offended them. It is then I know what agony is.How sweet it is, on those occasions, to be reassured that He lives, and to have my witness reaffirmed. I want, with fervent desire, to show you how our burdens of disappointment, sin, and guilt can be laid before Him, and on His generous terms have each item on the account marked, “Paid in Full.”I claim with my brethren of the Twelve to be a special witness of Him. My witness, and theirs, is true. I love the Lord, and I love the Father who sent Him.Eliza R. Snow, with deep spiritual inspiration, wrote these words, with which I close.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The theme I have chosen for these remarks I have taken from a jingle we used to sing in the army back in 1918 when things looked gloomy. It began:This I have done because although there is presently a widespread foreboding of difficult times ahead, I am persuaded that there is “a silver lining” to our predicament and that “behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own.” (“The Present Crisis,” James Russell Lowell.)Typical of the widespread concern is the statement made some time ago by the Secretary-General of the United Nations:“I do not wish to conceal,” he said, “my profound concern about the situation which now prevails in the world, a concern which I know to be shared by responsible people everywhere. There is an almost universal sense of apprehension about where the tumultuous developments of our time may take us, a sense of deep anxiety at phenomena which we do not fully understand, let alone control. In all the speculation, much of it depressing, about the shape of the future, there recurs a note of helplessness and fatalism which I find deeply disturbing. This is not a new phenomenon. Dire prophecies have often before been the symptoms of periods of transition and change in human society. What  new is the scope and scale of the problems which give rise to these apprehensions. …“Today the civilization which is facing such a challenge is  just one small part of mankind—it is mankind as a whole.” (Kurt Waldheim, address, August 30, 1974; italics added.)Another ominous reminder of the gathering gloom is found in a recent press release concerning a new book titled  which “pictures humanity on the edge of an abyss of scarcity that appears bottomless.” (Mr. and Mrs. Paul Erlich, Stanford University News Service, December 17, 1974.)These forecasts are discomfiting. They come as no surprise, however, to Latter-day Saints, because we know that nearly a hundred and fifty years ago the Lord said that the conduct of the inhabitants of the earth, unless reformed, would bring disaster. He diagnosed its cause, predicted its coming, and prescribed the means by which it can be avoided.The inhabitants of the earth, He said—explaining the cause of the impending disaster—“have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God. …“Wherefore,” He continued, “I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;“And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world.” The Lord is here referring to communications which had taken place between Him and Joseph Smith during the previous eleven years, which began with a personal appearance of God the Father and Jesus Christ, His Son, to Joseph Smith. In these communications—revelations, they were—God had declared that the spirits of all men are His literal offspring; He explained that the earth was created at His instance to be the dwelling place upon which we, His spirit sons and daughters, were to be proven to see if we would do what He, our Father and God, commands us.He knew from widespread experience how we would have to conduct ourselves in order to avoid the calamities which have repeatedly vexed and devastated the inhabitants of the earth.So knowing, He instructed the first generation of men, beginning with Adam, and He has instructed every succeeding generation on how to live in order to persist and prosper. He has told them that if they would follow His directions, they would be blessed and flourish upon the earth. At the same time He has warned that if they persisted in disregarding His directions, they would bring upon themselves calamities and disaster.These directions and warnings have not been the arbitrary edicts of a vindictive tyrant. They are the teachings, counsels, and pleadings of a solicitous, loving Heavenly Father. They prescribe the one and only means to peace and happiness in this earth. They declare irrevocable law, compliance with which is indispensable to peace and progress: the earth itself responds to man’s obedience or disobedience to the teachings of God, who made the earth.Obedience invokes “peaceful and beneficient cooperation of the elements.”Disobedience “may” and repeatedly has produced “calamity in the form of destructive phenomena.”Total disobedience in the days of Noah “brought about the Deluge.” (Dr. James E. Talmage,  June 1921, p. 738.)Let us consider some of God’s basic instructions which, if obeyed, bring peace and prosperity.The first commandment He gave to Adam and Eve after they left the garden of Eden was “that they should worship the Lord their God.”  The significance of this commandment underlies all the rest of His commandments. Note how the Lord has repeatedly emphasized this need:“I am the Lord thy God …“Thou shalt have no other gods before me.“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.” To the lawyer who asked, “Master, which is the great commandment in the law?“Jesus said, … Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.” The Lord was alluding to these commandments when He said to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning this generation: “They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world.” These commandments, with others, together with blessings promised to follow observance thereof, were thus emphasized in the commandments given to Joseph Smith for our instruction in this dispensation.“Thou shalt not lie.” “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it.“Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.“And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, …“The fulness of the earth is yours.“[And you will] learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.” Do you think this generation merits this reward by reason of having observed these commandments? Following are samples of what the Lord has said we merit and shall receive if we, refusing to repent, hold to our present course of wickedness:“A desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out from time to time, if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming.“Behold, I tell you these things,” said the Savior, in this dispensation, “even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.” In the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives us this counsel and prediction: “Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes.“For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig-tree.” Now all the acts of governments, all the armies of the nations, all the learning and the wisdom of man together cannot turn these calamities aside. The only way they can be averted is for men to accept and conform to the way of life revealed by God our Heavenly Father. Calamities will come as a matter of cause and effect. They follow naturally “and inevitably the sins of mankind and the unregenerate state of the race.” (Talmage,  June 1921, p. 739.)And let it not be supposed, now, that the Lord takes pleasure in these calamities. He does not. He graphically foretells the inevitable consequences of men’s sins for the purpose of inducing them to repent and thereby avoid the calamities.And now, in conclusion, let us consider for a moment the silver lining spoken of.As the Lord has repeatedly warned that breaking His commandments would bring on calamity, so has He promised that observance of His commandments would avert calamity and bring blessings.As disobedience brought on the flood, so obedience sanctified Enoch’s Zion.“And the Lord blessed the land, and they … did flourish.“And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness.” As in ancient America the rebellious were destroyed by earthquake, whirlwind, and fire at the time of Christ’s crucifixion, so the righteous survivors developed a society which enjoyed perfect peace for several hundred years. (See Through Malachi the Lord promised “Israel that by faithfulness the seasons should be made propitious, that nurturing rains should come, bringing such harvests that the people would lack room to store their products.” (Talmage,  June 1921, p. 738; see  Like assurances have been given in these latter days.Nephi, envisioning and speaking of our day, said that God “will preserve the righteous by his power, … even unto the destruction of their enemies by fire. Wherefore, the righteous need not fear.” Speaking to His apostles concerning our day, Jesus said: “They shall see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land.“But my disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die.“And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another. …“When … the Lord had spoken these words,” as he stood with His apostles, “they were troubled.”“[But He] said unto them: Be not troubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.” “I am no respecter of persons,” He said, “and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. “And also [and here is ] the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst.” That we shall in full faith, relying upon these assurances, so keep the commandments that we shall be sustained by the knowledge that “behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own” would be my fervent hope.Now, my brothers and sisters, I bear you my witness that I know these things are true; that we are the children of God our Father; that He sent us here; that our actions determine what will occur according to His statements to us in the plain and simple words that He has spoken. I know that we can have peace in the world if we will repent and follow the commandments of the Lord. I know that calamity will follow if we do not. And I plead for God to be with us that we may merit peace and security, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.