The last time I spoke from this pulpit I explained a special need to help local missionaries from some of the missions in South America. In most of these countries the annual income averages less than 10 percent of what it is here. I explained that these young people had already sacrificed much, and that they would need additional financial help from those of us who could easily share. I didn’t really appeal for funds. I outlined a need.This is my first opportunity to express thanks to so many for helping these missionaries—even without being asked! I can’t imagine what would have happened if we had actually asked for help! One lady wrote, “You so carefully avoided asking for funds that you also avoided telling us where to send them.” I should repent of that. I’m really hesitant—but you all know where Church headquarters are!Some letters came to me personally. They are as heartwarming as the stories of need. One lady sent a generous first monthly check and had her niece write: “Some question my ability to help so much on my small income. But I want to do my part; and if I do, the Lord will take care of me.” She was ninety-nine, disabled, and blind.A nickel and four pennies were taped to a card over the printed signature of a five-year-old whose mother wrote his message: “I love Heavenly Father. I’m giving part of my allowance to a missionary.”A youngster, fifteen, said, “I didn’t think two dollars would matter much. But my dad said if everyone in the Church sent two dollars, it would be over six million—and that’s not too bad!”Another wrote: “As a father of eight sons, I know how disappointing it would be for me if any of my sons was unable to serve a mission because of lack of finances. Enclosed is some help.”An elderly couple, remembering their temple vows, said: “We have sent seven of our own children. We know it takes more money now than then.”A mother wrote, “After October conference, in family council, we decided to  some money not to spend it for Christmas, but to send it to missionaries. The boys, ages five and six, gathered cans for refunds, stacked wood, raked leaves, vacuumed the car, and swept the garage. Two-year-old Becky stacked wood and set the table. Mom gave piano lessons. Daddy cracked his piggy bank of eight years. One boy lost a tooth, and Daddy paid him a quarter for it. He promptly loosened and removed two more for an additional fifty cents! We are sending our total earnings ($81.85). It’s been a pleasure.”The shortest letter read, “Per your instructions last general conference. Sincerely. …”Aside from some concern about possible toothless youngsters, I commend you all. Thank you, brothers and sisters.Gratefully, the need still exists. In fact, it’s growing daily. Last year we experienced a 37 percent increase in the number of local missionaries serving.We have another and different need in the fast-developing areas, as well as in most of the missions. Last year more than 140,000 converts joined the Church. With so many converts the little branches grow rapidly. New leaders are called to positions of service early. They are able but inexperienced in Church procedures and administration. These new leaders, as well as older ones, need to be taught how to organize the Church correctly and cause it to function properly. Who is available to teach these principles? Regional Representatives? Yes. Their visits are limited, however, and they cover wide areas. Mission presidents? Yes, but they are greatly burdened with large and ofttimes difficult areas to cover; and in reality, they have little time in which to do it. Mature couples with a background of Church service? Yes. But where do we get them? Why, the Church is full of them!Would you like to serve? Such a call will delay your retirement, take you off the golf course, and take you away from your mobile home. It will place you face to face with real challenges that require deep spirituality, earnest prayer, and the exercise of great faith. If you would like to serve, contact your priesthood leaders to see if you are worthy and able. They are the ones who determine your worthiness to receive a missionary call from the Prophet. Our priesthood leaders will be very careful about whom they recommend. They will carefully review all information submitted and give special attention to your medical record to see if there are any physical or emotional problems that would interfere with full-time missionary work.Your children must be grown and married. Good health is essential. In spite of your desire and means to go, it may not be possible due to poor health. I must be very frank about this matter and caution you: Missionary work is not a sentimental journey. While the work will be accommodated somewhat to your needs, it will nevertheless be  You will miss births, deaths, weddings, and other family events. You will live in less comfort than you are accustomed to. It will be the most challenging, disappointing, discouraging, and difficult time of your life.Nevertheless, I have heard the testimonies of couples who are presently serving; and in spite of the inconveniences, I can promise you one thing: supreme joy—the joy that comes from diligent labor and selfless service. Ammon knew this kind of joy. In the Book of Mormon we read: “And this is the account of Ammon and his brethren, their journeyings in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land, their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehensible joy.”  You, too, may experience a joy and exultation known in no other way.Most people who need your help speak another language. You will be enabled to learn a new language, however, through a system adapted to your situation.The nature of your service will not be exactly like the young missionaries. The emphasis now is for experienced couples to teach leadership principles (which you already know) to inexperienced leaders. Normally you will not preside in a branch or district, but you will help those who do to improve their abilities and to cause the Church to function properly. You will also teach principles of personal and family preparedness. You might work as a specialist in health, agriculture, or vocational services. You will share the gospel through proselyting as well. The length of service is usually eighteen months. However, you may serve a six- or twelve-month mission.The areas where you are needed vary sufficiently to meet the needs of most couples. It will require $400 to $500 per month. In many cases this cost provides the opportunity for children to now help their parents fill  missions.Perhaps some of you couples listening today may look at one another and say, “Dear, why shouldn’t we see if we qualify?” Some of you who desire to serve may not be members of the Church. We would welcome you, too. There are, however, one or two preliminary steps you need to take prior to being recommended. If you should see our young missionaries about, or if you know members of the Church, please ask about their message. It will open the door to marvelous opportunities in the service of the Master, as well as open the door to eternal life for you.Our Savior taught that service saves: “For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo,  that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that  perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to  soul.”  italics added.)“And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be  joy with  in the kingdom of my Father!“And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be  joy if you should bring many souls unto me!”  italics added.)I know that we are in the service of the Master. I know that Jesus is the Christ, that he lives and directs his work through his living prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball. To this I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Henry Ward Beecher once said, “It is not well for a man to pray cream and live skim milk.” ( ed. William Drysdale, New York: Appleton, 1887, p. 192.) That was a century ago. There is now before us a danger that many may pray skim milk and live  not at all.Our modern times seem to suggest that prayerful devotion and reverence for holiness is unreasonable or undesirable, or both. And yet, skeptical “modern” men have need for prayer. Perilous moments, great responsibility, deep anxiety, overwhelming grief—these challenges that shake us out of old complacencies and established routines will bring to the surface our native impulses. If we let them, they will humble us, soften us, and turn us to respectful prayer.If prayer is only a spasmodic cry at the time of crisis, then it is utterly selfish, and we come to think of God as a repairman or a service agency to help us only in our emergencies. We should remember the Most High day and night—always—not only at times when all other assistance has failed and we desperately need help. If there is any element in human life on which we have a record of miraculous success and inestimable worth to the human soul, it is prayerful, reverential, devout communication with our Heavenly Father.“Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my meditation,” the Psalmist sang.“Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray.“My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.” Perhaps what this world needs, as much as anything, is to “look up” as the Psalmist said—to look up in our joys as well as our afflictions, in our abundance as well as in our need. We must continually look up and acknowledge God as the giver of every good thing and the source of our salvation.Jesus looked up throughout the course of his ministry. He prayed constantly and sought faithfully the divine direction of his Father in heaven. Furthermore, he acknowledged that the work and the will he came to fulfill was his Father’s, not his own. He, more than any other in this world’s history, was willing to humble himself, to bow down, and to give honor and glory to the Most High.Reverence and adoration were frequently declared in prayer by the Master and were beautifully expressed in the Sermon on the Mount when he gave this counsel: “After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.” “Probably no other words in the Lord’s Prayer have been so frequently slurred and overlooked as ‘Hallowed be thy name.’ They lie … ,” as one writer said, “in the valley between the great name of God and the glorious Kingdom for which we are looking and waiting. We slide over them as though they were only a parenthesis and hasten on to ask for bread and deliverance from our greatest foe.” (Charles Edward Jefferson,  Salt Lake City: Parliament Publishers, 1968, pp. 313–14.)Jesus was careful to place the petition “Hallowed be thy name” at the very forefront of his prayer. Unless that reverent, prayerful, honorable attitude toward God is uppermost in our hearts, we are not fully prepared to pray. If our first thought is of ourselves and not of God, we are not praying as Jesus taught. It was his supreme hope that our Father’s name and station would be kept beautiful and holy. Living always with an eye single to the glory of God, he urged men everywhere to so speak, and act, and live, that others seeing their good works might glorify their Father in heaven.The reverence of the Savior for our Father and the understanding of his love made the whole world hopeful and holy. Even the temple where Jesus taught and worshipped in Jerusalem was built in such a way as to establish respect for and devotion to the Father. Its very architecture taught a silent but constant lesson of reverence. Every Hebrew was privileged to enter into the outer courts of the temple, but only one particular class of men could enter into the inner court or holy place. Into the innermost sanctuary, the Holy of Holies, only one man was permitted to make his way, and this was limited to only one special day each year. In this way a great truth was taught: that God must be approached carefully, respectfully, and with great preparation.In the process of moral decline, reverence is one of the first virtues to disappear, and there should be serious concern about that loss in our times. Love of money had warped the hearts of many of Jesus’ countrymen. They cared more for gain than they did for God. Caring nothing for God, why should they care for his temple? They converted the temple courts into a marketplace and drowned out the prayers and psalms of the faithful with their greedy exchange of money and the bleating of innocent sheep. Never did Jesus show a greater tempest of emotion than in the cleansing of the temple. Instantly he became avenging fury, and before the miscreants knew what was happening, their coins were rolling over the temple floor and their flocks and herds were in the street.The reason for the tempest lies in just three words: “My Father’s house.” It was not an ordinary house; it was the house of God. It was erected for God’s worship. It was a home for the reverent heart. It was intended to be a place of solace for men’s woes and troubles, the very gate of heaven. “Take these things hence” he said, “make not my Father’s house an house of merchandise.”  His devotion to the Most High kindled a fire in his soul and gave his words the force that pierced the offenders like a dagger.How careful Jesus was for even the name of his Father is illustrated in what he said regarding oaths. The religious leaders of his day had a certain form of prayer and reverence that was often circumscribed and shallow. They paid such high respect to the letters that spelled God’s name that they would never take them upon their lips, but they used in their oaths the names of things that were creations of God. The Savior’s adoration for his Father was so reverent that it extended to all things created by and possessed of the Father. The religionists of the day were in the habit of swearing by heaven, but this to Jesus was profane because heaven was where his Father dwelt. They sometimes swore by the earth, but this to him was irreverent also because the earth was his Father’s footstool. Here indeed is a sensitive, reverential heart. He felt so keenly the majesty and dignity of the Eternal Father that all created things reflected his glory. Nothing was to be treated irreverently or dragged down into vulgarity or converted into jest.There are wide areas of our society from which the spirit of prayer and reverence and worship has vanished. Men and women in many circles are clever, interesting, or brilliant, but they lack one crucial element in a complete life. They do not look up. They do not offer up vows in righteousness, as the requirement is stated in the Doctrine and Covenants, “on all days and at all times.”  Their conversation sparkles, but it is not sacred. Their talk is witty, but it is not wise. Whether it be in the office, the locker room, or the laboratory, they have come too far down the scale of dignity who display their own limited powers and then find it necessary to blaspheme those unlimited powers that come from above.Unfortunately we sometimes find this lack of reverence even within the Church. Occasionally we visit too loudly, enter and leave meetings too disrespectfully in what should be an hour of prayer and purifying worship. Reverence is the atmosphere of heaven. Prayer is the utterance of the soul to God the Father. We do well to become more like our Father by looking up to him, by remembering him always, and by caring greatly about his world and his work.Dr. Alexis Carrel, recipient of the Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine, once said, “Today as never before, prayer is a binding necessity in the lives of men and nations. The lack of emphasis on the religious sense has brought the world to an age of destruction. Our deepest source of power and perfection has been left miserably undeveloped.” ( March 1941, p. 36.)If men are no longer awed by the thought of a holy God and are, as Mormon said of the people of his day, “without principle, and past feeling”  then we face a fearful time. A number of years ago, President David O. McKay made this statement: “We are living in a troublous age. Many people in the Church, as millions in the world, are stirred with anxiety; hearts are heavy with feelings of foreboding. For the third time in half a century lowering war clouds threaten world peace. O foolish man! Will he never profit by the experiences of the past! … It is the duty of the members of the Church to hold aloft true spiritual standards. Then we shall be better prepared for any eventuality.” ( April 1948, pp. 64–65.)Prayer, reverence, worship, devotion, respect for the holy—these are basic exercises of our spirit and must be actively practiced in our lives or they will be lost. One of our LDS chaplains once wrote to a Church leader about the need for reverential faith, or the need to keep looking up. “In combat,” he said, “I learned that a chaplain, if he will, can be the spark plug in the nerve center of a group of men who suddenly realize that they need something from above and beyond. A word here, a word there, a nod there, a prayer with this man, a story with that one, a smile and a comforting arm—all work wonders in teaching men sanity and stability where insanity and instability are the order of the day.” (Harold B. Lee, “Prayer,” Address to Seminary and Institute Faculty, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, July 6, 1956, p. 19.)The Lord gave to Moses a code of laws often referred to as the Holiness Code of Behavior. There is an instruction in that code that is fitting to this occasion today. The Lord said, “Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy: for I the Lord your God am holy.” “It is not well for man to pray cream and live skim milk.” It is worse yet to pray skim milk and live  not at all. We must look up, be prayerful, and like Christ, understand the true meaning of “Hallowed be thy name.” May the Lord bless us to be reverent, prayerful, full of worship and devotion, until we re-enter the holy presence of him who is our Father, I pray in the name of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.