My brethren and sisters, I seek the direction of the Holy Spirit. Many of us have been gratified recently as we have read in periodicals and seen on television some complimentary references to the Church.For instance, last month one of the large circulation magazines spoke appreciatively of the Mormon way of life, a way which discourages the use of tobacco, alcohol, tea, and coffee and encourages physical fitness. Then a network television broadcast reported on our tremendous genealogical program. There have been other positive accounts dealing with the organizational structure of the Church, with our welfare program, and with the family home evening program.But largely absent from all of these accounts is any mention of the origin of these practices, or the reasons for them.Further, some recent publications carry the thesis that there is nothing of the hand of Divinity in the establishment and development of the Church; that this has been only a natural response to contemporary social conditions.An acquaintance said to me one day: “I admire your church very much. I think I could accept everything about it—except Joseph Smith.” To which I responded: “That statement is a contradiction. If you accept the revelation, you must accept the revelator.”It is a constantly recurring mystery to me how some people speak with admiration for the Church and its work, while at the same time disdaining him through whom, as a servant of the Lord, came the framework of all that the Church is, of all that it teaches, and of all that it stands for. They would pluck the fruit from the tree while cutting off the root from which it grows.The so-called Mormon code of health, widely praised in these days of cancer and heart research, is in reality a revelation given to Joseph Smith in 1833 as a “Word of Wisdom” from the Lord.  In no conceivable way could it have come of the dietary literature of the time, nor from the mind of the man who announced it. Today, in terms of medical research, it is a miracle, whose observance has saved incalculable suffering and premature death for uncounted tens of thousands.Genealogical research is suddenly becoming a popular hobby as a result of Alex Haley’s book  Thousands of eyes across the world have been turned to what is described as the Mormon treasure house of genealogical data. But this tremendous program of the Church did not result from the pursuit of a hobby. It is an extension of the teachings of Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet. He declared that we cannot be saved without our forebears, those who did not have a knowledge of the gospel and consequently could not fulfill its requirements nor partake of its opportunities.The remarkable organization of the Church, which has received much attention, was framed by him as he was directed by revelation, and no modification or adaptation of that organization is ever considered without searching the revelations set forth by the Prophet.Even the welfare program, which some are prone to regard as of rather recent origin, is founded and operated strictly upon principles enunciated by Joseph Smith in the early years of the Church. This is likewise true of the family home evening program, which is no more than an extension of early revelation on the responsibility of parents to bring up their children in “light and truth.” Not long ago, while riding in a plane, I engaged in conversation with a young man who was seated beside me. We moved from one subject to another, and then came to the matter of religion. He said that he had read considerably about the Mormons, that he had found much to admire in their practices, but that he had a definite prejudice concerning the story of the origin of the Church and particularly Joseph Smith. He was an active member of another organization, and when I asked where he had acquired his information, he indicated that it had come from publications of his church. I asked what company he worked for. He proudly replied that he was a sales representative for IBM. I then asked whether he would think it fair for his customers to learn of the qualities of IBM products from a Xerox representative. He replied with a smile, “I think I get the point of what you’re trying to say.”I took from my case a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants and read to him the words of the Lord expressed through Joseph Smith, words which are the source of those practices my friend had come to admire in us while disdaining the man through whom they had come. Before we parted, he agreed to read the literature I would send to him. I promised him that if he would do so prayerfully he would know the truth not only of these doctrines and practices which have interested him, but also of the man through whom they were introduced. I then gave him my testimony of my conviction concerning the prophetic calling of Joseph Smith.We do not worship the Prophet. We worship God our Eternal Father, and the risen Lord Jesus Christ. But we acknowledge him, we proclaim him, we respect him, we reverence him as an instrument in the hands of the Almighty in restoring to the earth the ancient truths of the divine gospel, together with the priesthood through which the authority of God is exercised in the affairs of his church and for the blessing of his people.The story of Joseph’s life is the story of a miracle. He was born in poverty. He was reared in adversity. He was driven from place to place, falsely accused, and illegally imprisoned. He was murdered at the age of thirty-eight. Yet in the brief space of twenty years preceding his death he accomplished what none other has accomplished in an entire lifetime. He translated and published the Book of Mormon, a volume of 522 pages which has since been retranslated into more than a score of languages and which is accepted by millions across the earth as the word of God. The revelations he received and other writings he produced are likewise scripture to these millions. The total in book pages constitutes the equivalent of almost the entire Old Testament of the Bible, and it all came through one man in the space of a few years.In this same period he established an organization which for almost a century and a half has withstood every adversity and challenge, and is as effective today in governing a worldwide membership of more than three and a half million as it was 145 years ago in governing a membership of three thousand. There are those doubters who have strained to explain this remarkable organization as the product of the times in which he lived. That organization, I submit, was as peculiar, as unique, and as remarkable then as it is today. It was not a product of the times. It came as a revelation from God.Joseph Smith’s vision of man’s immortal nature reached from an existence before birth to the eternities beyond the grave. He taught that salvation is universal in that all men will become the beneficiaries of the resurrection through the atonement wrought by the Savior. But beyond this gift is the requirement of obedience to the principles of the gospel and the promise of consequent happiness in this life and exaltation in the life to come.Nor was the gospel he taught limited in application to those of his own and future generations. The mind of Joseph Smith, tutored by the God of heaven, encompassed all mankind of all generations. Both the living and the dead must have the opportunity to partake of gospel ordinances.Peter of old declared: “For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.”  In the case of the dead there must be vicarious work if they are to be judged according to men in the flesh, and in order to accomplish this they must be identified; hence the great genealogical program of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It was not established to satisfy the interests of a hobby, but to accomplish the eternal purposes of God.Within the space of that twenty years preceding his death, Joseph Smith set in motion a program for carrying the gospel to the nations of the earth. I marvel at the boldness with which he moved. Even in the infant days of the Church, in times of dark adversity, men were called to leave homes and families, to cross the sea, to proclaim the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. His mind, his vision encompassed the entire earth.Seated in this hall today are those from North, Central, and South America; from the British Isles and Africa; from the nations of Europe; from the islands and continents of the Pacific; and from the ancient lands of Asia. You who have come from far and near, you are the flowering of the vision of Joseph Smith, the prophet of God. He was indeed a mighty seer, who saw this day and greater days yet to come as the work of the Lord moves over the earth.This magnificent flowering would amaze those men with painted faces who, in a cowardly attack, shot and killed the defenseless Prophet that sultry June day in 1844. It would amaze Governor Thomas Ford of the state of Illinois, who had pledged to protect the Prophet and then had left him to the mercy of the merciless mob. It was this same Thomas Ford who concluded in his  that Joseph Smith “never could succeed in establishing a system of policy which looked to permanent success in the future.” (Thomas Ford,  , quoted in B. H. Roberts,  2:347.)It is this same Thomas Ford who today lies buried in a secluded section of the cemetery in Peoria, Illinois, largely forgotten, while the man he had judged a failure is remembered with gratitude over the earth.When I was a boy, twelve years of age, my father took me to a meeting of the priesthood of the stake in which we lived. I sat on the back row while he, as president of the stake, sat on the stand. At the opening of that meeting, the first of its kind I had ever attended, three or four hundred men stood. They were men from varied backgrounds and many vocations, but each had in his heart the same conviction, out of which together they sang these great words:Something happened within me as I heard those men of faith sing. There came into my boyish heart a knowledge, placed there by the Holy Spirit, that Joseph Smith was indeed a prophet of the Almighty. In the many years that have since passed, years in which I have read much of his words and works, that knowledge has grown stronger and ever more certain. Mine has been the privilege of bearing witness across this nation from sea to shining sea, and on continents north and south, east and west, that he was and is a prophet of God, a mighty servant and testifier of the Lord Jesus Christ.That testimony I reaffirm to you this day, as I also affirm that he who presides at this conference is the legal successor to him of whom I have spoken. I know that, and I leave my testimony in the name of him of whom Joseph Smith was a witness and of whom I also am a witness, even the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen.Following the resurrection of the Savior, he walked along the way toward Emmaus with two of his disciples, and we are told that “their eyes were holden that they” didn’t recognize Him.  When He heard what they had to say about Him and His life and crucifixion, He realized that they didn’t comprehend what He had tried to teach them, and so He said to them: “O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken.” Then, commencing with Moses and the prophets, He showed them how in all things the prophets had testified of Him; and you know that they did, even to the minutest detail, even to the casting of lots for His clothing at the time of His crucifixion. Then Luke tells us that He opened their understandings that they might understand the scriptures. Now I ask you here today, do you believe all that the prophets have spoken? And if you do, you realize what Isaiah said: that the Lord has declared “the end from the beginning.” It’s all in the holy scriptures, and of all the great events of the history of the world, as far as the prophets have foretold, the greatest is the preparation for the coming of the Savior in the latter days, when He will come in power and great glory, with all the holy angels, as King of kings and Lord of lords.Obviously there has to be a preparation for that coming.I would like to preface what I am going to say here today with the words of the song written by William Cowper. It goes like this: “God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform.” I would like to refer today to a few of the wonders that the Lord has performed and is performing in order to prepare for that glorious coming of His Only Begotten Son as the prophets have foretold. I may repeat some of the things that have been said in this conference.I first refer to the statement of Malachi when the Lord, speaking through the prophet Malachi, said that He would send His messenger to prepare the way for His coming, and that He would come swiftly to His temple; and who could abide the day of His coming, because He would be as refiner’s fire and fullers’ soap. (See  Now obviously that had no reference to His first coming, when He was born as a humble babe in Bethlehem, for He didn’t come to His temple swiftly, and He didn’t come cleansing or purifying. But we are told that when He comes in the latter days the wicked will cry out to the rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us … from the wrath of the Lamb.” Obviously, when the Lord sends a messenger to prepare the way before Him, that messenger can be none other than a prophet. When He came in the meridian of time, the Lord sent John the Baptist, and Jesus bore witness that there was no greater prophet in Israel than John the Baptist.We have heard here today from Brother Derrick about the bringing forth of the boy Joseph Smith as a prophet of the Lord, visited by the Father and the Son back in 1820. If we could realize how this world has changed in the past 200 years because of the coming of the Father and the Son to usher in this dispensation as compared with the centuries preceding—why didn’t it happen 500 years ago or a thousand years ago?But we are living in the day of preparation, and the Lord has sent his messenger to prepare the way, and He gave unto him the keys to organize His Church and kingdom and to establish the holy priesthood and the power of the apostleship, such as existed in the church in the primitive days.Then there are the words of Paul. He said that the Lord has revealed the mystery of His will, “That in the dispensation of the fulness of times [] he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth.”  Isn’t that something to think about, when you hear that the Lord will reveal the mystery of His will? And that the mystery of His will has been revealed to His modern prophets of this day?And we have truths that no other church in this world knows anything about—we are the only church in the world that has a program to unite all that is in the kingdom of heaven with the kingdom of God here on this earth, looking to the final winding-up scenes when all the kingdoms of this world and the world to come will be under the supervision of our great King, the Savior of the world. Well, they are just some of the little things that need to be done. Now there are many other prophecies foretelling His second coming.When Moroni visited the Prophet Joseph three times during the night, when he was only eighteen years old and had no church organization, Moroni quoted some of the prophecies that were yet to be fulfilled in the preparation; and one was from the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, where the Lord said that He would “set his hand again the second time to gather scattered Israel, and that He would bring in the dispersed of Judah, and He would “set up an ensign for the nations.”  That He has done through the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains as a witness that He has gathered scattered Israel. And now Judah is being gathered back to her native land after centuries—two thousand years of wandering and persecution—and now Israel has a nation of her own. All of this is but fulfillment of the prophecies that were to precede the coming of the Savior in the latter days.Then Isaiah made another statement regarding the latter days. (It seems to me that he almost lived more in our day than the time when he was here upon the earth, because he saw so much of what would transpire.) He saw in the last days (and he names the ) that the mountain of the Lord’s house would be established in the top of the mountains (and we are here) and that all nations would flow unto it. “And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; that he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” Thousands can testify how they have been gathered from foreign lands to these valleys of the mountains where this beautiful temple is. Just imagine the Saints starting to build an edifice like that when they had nothing but their hands with which to build it, and were a thousand miles from transportation. One of the first things that President Brigham Young did when they entered into this valley, a wilderness, was to put his cane on the spot where this temple was to be built. Well, Isaiah saw all of that thousands of years ago, and that is another of the preparatory things that the prophets have foreseen that were to precede His second coming.Then we come back to the prophet Malachi again, and he said: “I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord []:“And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.”  President Kimball spoke of that in his opening address.I doubt if we have any conception of what that really meant, when Elijah came. There are unseen powers that operate in this world on the hearts and minds of men that are as real as the sunshine is to the plants and the trees to help them grow, and the seeds to sprout, and so forth. Elijah did come; on the third day of April 1836 he appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple and brought back the keys of the turning of the hearts of the fathers who have passed away to their children here upon this earth, and the hearts of the children here to their fathers, and that in itself is one of the great miracles of all ages.If you could just realize what has happened as a result of Elijah’s coming! At that time there were no genealogical societies in the world, and now they are all over the world; and not only that but I had a newspaper that came to me from Indianapolis the other day and the whole front page of the paper was about the gathering of genealogy. It told about our Genealogical Department out here, and I checked with Brother Burton, and we have over 600 employees in that department, 80 men that are microfilming the records all over this land and in Europe.Then we have these great vaults out here in these granite mountains where these films are preserved. There is nothing like it in the world. And if you stop to figure how many people it took to prepare the 4 million volumes of genealogy that we have in our library here, then you will realize that the Spirit is moving on them all over the world.When I was down in the South as president of the mission, one of our new converts went into the library hunting genealogy, and he found one of their family names prepared by a judge and his wife over in Texas, and the preface read like this:“This book has been prepared at great expense and time and money on the part of my wife and myself. Why we have done it we do not know, but we trust in the providences of the Lord that it will someday serve a useful purpose.”I could tell you more stories like that to show you how the Spirit is moving upon the people of this world to gather their genealogy preparatory to the work that we can do in our temples.Then just think of the thousands of people that are working in our temples day by day. All of that is a part of this great and marvelous work that Elijah was to come and bring.I was over in Israel a few years ago and one day we went into three of the synagogues there. In one, tied up on the side of the wall, was an armchair. I knew what it was there for, but I wanted the rabbi to tell me! I said, “What’s that chair there for?”He said, “So if Elijah comes along we can lower it and let him occupy it.”How little do they realize that Elijah has been here and if they could only comprehend what has happened in this world, that he has touched the hearts of men and women all over this world as a result of his coming—well, that was one of the great things that was to transpire.God bless you. I believe the words of the prophets, and I know that this Church is the preparation that all of the holy prophets have decreed to prepare for the coming of our Savior; and may He hasten that day, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.