My beloved brethren and sisters, humbly and gratefully I respond to the request of the First Presidency to participate in this important welfare session of the conference.The subject of my remarks is, “Ministering to Needs through the Lord’s Storehouse System.”For forty years and more members of the Church have been counseled by their leaders to prepare for uncertainty and calamity. Many have followed that counsel; some have turned a deaf ear to it. Times and circumstances cause us to repeat what the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith in March 1832:“For verily I say unto you, the time has come, and is now at hand; … it must needs be that  in regulating and establishing the affairs of the storehouse for the poor of my people … through my providence, notwithstanding the tribulation which shall descend upon you, that the Church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world.”  italics added.)The Church storehouse system is an organization of physical warehouses and transportation facilities, with operating and managing personnel. This system is set up to receive, store, transport, exchange, and distribute food and nonfood commodities to those in need.A fundamental unit of the Church storehouse system is the local bishops storehouse. Bishops storehouses are Church-owned facilities from which local bishops obtain food, clothing, and other commodities to care for the poor and needy who are unable to care for themselves. Deseret Industries are used as storehouses to provide nonfood commodities. Each bishop in the Church should have access to a local storehouse stocked with essential commodities produced in the program to meet the needs of his people.The Lord, by revelation, has commanded that storehouses be established. The surpluses, or “residue,” from the consecrated properties under the united order were to be kept in the storehouses “to administer to the poor and the needy.”  Later, the Lord instructed that the Presiding Bishop “appoint a storehouse unto this church; and let all things both in money and in [food], which are more than is needful for the wants of this people, be kept in the hands of the bishop.” Today there are seventy-eight bishops storehouses in the Church storehouse system. These storehouses are used for almost the identical purpose they were used for under the united order. Members consecrate their time and talents and means to produce, process, package, manufacture, and purchase commodities to care for those in need. To stock these storehouses, members of more than 3,000 Latter-day Saint wards throughout the Church participate in production and processing projects producing vegetables, grains, fruits, and other food and nonfood items. Some of these commodities are sold on the open market to pay operating costs. The balance of these commodities are kept in and distributed through the storehouse system to those in need. Total assistance through storehouses during 1976 amounted to several millions of dollars.Our bishops storehouses are not intended to stock enough commodities to care for all the members of the Church. Storehouses are only established to care for the poor and the needy. For this reason, members of the Church have been instructed to personally store a year’s supply of food, clothing, and, where possible, fuel. By following this counsel, most members will be prepared and able to care for themselves and their family members, and be able to share with others as may be needed.The local bishop is the Lord’s designated administrator in providing for the poor and needy. The bishop has “the sole discretion in caring for, the poor of the Church. … It is his duty and his only to determine to whom, when, how, and how much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help.“This is a high and solemn obligation, imposed by the Lord himself. The bishop cannot escape this duty; he cannot shirk it; he cannot pass it on to someone else, and so relieve himself. Whatever help he calls in, he is still responsible.” (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., unpublished article, 9 July 1941, as cited in  Nov. 1976, p. 112.)By revelation, the Lord has instructed bishops to search actively “after the poor to administer to their wants.”  Storehouses were divinely established to assist bishops in performing this duty.How does a bishop call on storehouse commodities? Once the poor and needy are sought out in his ward, the specific needs of individuals should be identified. This may be done with the help of the priesthood and Relief Society leaders. A bishop should then assess these needs, ensuring that each individual cares for himself and that families take care of family members who cannot care for themselves.Commodities are deposited in a storehouse, and may only be withdrawn by a bishops order.Commodities are never sold from a storehouse, and only the bishop’s authorized signature on the bishops order will secure commodities. The Relief Society president may assist the bishop in determining the amount of storehouse commodities to be used.Bishops storehouses and storehouse commodities belong to the Lord to be used by His servants—the bishops—to care for those in need. The best management should be used to care for the Lord’s property. Authorized storehouse personnel are to issue appropriate receipts for contributed commodities and cash. At least a year’s supply of nonperishable commodities are to be kept on hand. Surpluses must be appropriately cared for to avoid spoilage and waste. Storehouse keepers should check all processed food as it is received to see that it is season-dated and meets preestablished quality standards. All stocks are to be rotated as required to maintain quality and to avoid waste. In all cases, storehouses must be maintained and kept neat. Each storehouse should be a model to the Lord of efficiency, cleanliness, and service.I repeat, a bishops storehouse should be made available to every bishop. At the present time, the General Welfare Committee is initiating an expansion program to establish more production and processing projects and to build more storehouses. The Welfare Services Department, under the direction of the Area General Authority Supervisors, Regional Representatives of the Twelve, and area and regional welfare leaders, will be providing local direction to the effort. Should you have questions in this regard, please direct them to the appropriate priesthood officer.May I give this caution to stake presidents and bishops. Before you begin any fund-raising for a storehouse, seek counsel. Establish carefully planned goals. Know where you are going and why before you start. In the work of the Lord there should be no serious mistakes. The most important point of your planning should be on your knees. As we expand the storehouse system, there should be nothing done to damage the image of the Church.As we administer any aspect of the welfare program, the primary purpose for which it was established must be kept before us. That stated purpose is “to set up, insofar as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift, and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership.” (President Heber J. Grant, as quoted in  1973, p. 1.)Welfare recipients should work to the extent of their ability to earn commodity or fast offering assistance. When meaningful jobs are not provided, when people are not encouraged to work, a demoralizing Church dole would develop, and the purpose for which the welfare program was established would be undermined. It is a law of heaven, and one we haven’t learned fully here on earth, that you cannot help people permanently by doing for them what they can do, and should do, for themselves.Whenever bishops provide assistance, where possible the individual’s own money should be used to pay for his cash needs. Commodity needs should be satisfied by using storehouse commodities. In all cases where assistance is provided, those who receive the assistance should work to the extent of their ability to earn what they receive. Work assignments should be made by assigned bishops’ counselors or by the assigned Relief Society counselor. Commodities should be used wherever possible instead of cash fast offering assistance. By using storehouse commodities instead of fast offerings, the flow of commodities through the welfare system is ensured, production is encouraged, and waste is eliminated. Even more importantly, in keeping with the Lord’s instructions cited as my text, the Church will stand “independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world.”  That should be our objective!Occasionally, we receive questions as to the propriety of Church members receiving government assistance instead of Church assistance. Let me restate what is a fundamental principle. Individuals, to the extent possible, should provide for their own needs. Where the individual is unable to care for himself, his family should assist. Where the family is not able to provide, the Church should render assistance, not the government. We accept the basic principle that “though the people support the government, the government should not support the people.”Latter-day Saints should not receive  welfare assistance from local or national agencies. This includes food stamps. Priesthood and Relief Society leaders should urge members to accept the Church welfare program and earn through the program that which they need, even though they may receive less food and money. By doing so, members will be spiritually strengthened, and they will maintain their dignity and self-respect.Last year in the United States alone over $98 billion was distributed in unearned government transfer payments and other aid to millions of men and women who most often did nothing for what they received. This character-weakening government dole is repeated in almost every nation of the world. We encourage Latter-day Saints everywhere to remain free of government assistance. Work for what you receive.Economic and social conditions appear most ominous worldwide today. With revelation and prophecy as our guide, I think it is not extreme for me to say that when all is written about our present generation, it may truly be said that we had hardly enough time to prepare. To meet the impending crisis, I venture to say that all our spiritual and temporal resources will be taxed to the very limit. The Lord has declared: “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.” Great blessings come to us as individuals and to His Church as we support the Lord’s program for the care of the poor and needy. I have experienced these blessings firsthand in distributing food, clothing, and bedding to the suffering members of the Church in Europe following World War II. I witnessed the starving, the emaciated, and the barefoot. It was a piteous sight. My heart went out in compassion to all our Heavenly Father’s suffering children.I remember so well the arrival of our first Church welfare supplies in Berlin. I took with me the acting president of the mission, President Richard Ranglack. We walked to the old battered warehouse which, under armed guard, housed the precious welfare goods. At the far end of the warehouse we saw the boxes piled almost to the ceiling.“Are those boxes of food?” Richard said. “Do you mean to tell me those are boxes full of food?”“Yes, my brother,” I replied, “food and clothing and bedding—and, I hope, a few medical supplies.”Richard and I took down one of the boxes. We opened it. It was filled with the commonest of common foods—dried beans. As that good man saw it, he put his hands into it and ran it through his fingers, then broke down and cried like a child with gratitude.We opened another box, filled with cracked wheat, nothing added or taken away, just as the Lord made it and intended it to be. He touched a pinch of it to his mouth. After a moment he looked at me through his tearful eyes—and mine were wet, too—and he said, while slowly shaking his head, “Brother Benson, it is hard to believe that people who have never seen us could do so much for us.”That’s the Lord’s system! Voluntary donations motivated by brotherly love and willing sacrifice, and assisting others to help themselves. Such ensures dignity and self-respect.May we through the proper use and expansion of modern storehouses wisely provide for the care of our needy brothers and sisters according to the Lord’s plan, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My dear brothers and sisters, it is a pleasure to meet again with you in the welfare services session of general conference. My theme this morning is “Rendering assistance in the Lord’s own way.” My purpose today is to point out again the resources that are available to each bishop to assist him in providing for the needs of his people and perhaps to give a little different emphasis to some of these resources than has been given in the past.As we consider the resources available today, we should not forget some of the underlying guidelines from ancient times. As the prophet Alma records:“And they did impart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they did not wear costly apparel, yet they were neat and comely.“And thus they did establish the affairs of the church; and thus they began to have continual peace again, notwithstanding all their persecutions. …“And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and they did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no respect to persons as to those who stood in need.” As we have been taught so often from the Doctrine and Covenants, the bishop is commanded to search after the poor to administer to their wants. This refers to more than those who are materially poor. It includes those who have emotional problems or are involved in the multitudinous human problems of living. This information comes to the bishop primarily through personal priesthood interviews and reports received from the Relief Society workers. Again, as we have been taught, the first responsibility to solve the problem rests with the individual, then his family; and after they have done all they can, the Church and its welfare services organization is called upon.Recognizing these basic criteria, in the Church today we have an organization which is designed to minister in the Lord’s own way to those who have needs. This system consists of six elements: first, the bishops storehouse system; second, production projects; third, local welfare services resource personnel; fourth, LDS Social Services; fifth, Deseret Industries; and finally, the Church Employment System. These resources are referred to as Church preparedness.The bishops storehouse system is composed of physical storehouses and a transportation system. It is designed to receive, store, exchange, and distribute commodities provided through the consecration of the members of the Church.The bishops storehouse system is not a commercial enterprise. The commodities contained therein are not for sale. They are available only to those the bishop designates as recipients and only through a bishops order filled out by the Relief Society president and signed by the bishop. As we look to the future, there will be many more bishops storehouses organized throughout the Church. This will be done as the Church matures in the wards and stakes. It will be accomplished in an orderly manner according to plan. A very good example of what a bishops storehouse is and does is found in the one at Welfare Square in Salt Lake City. Anyone who is interested is most welcome to visit this storehouse at any time.Most of those who work in the storehouse are recipients of commodities. There are a minimum number of full-time staff members. One example of what happens when the spirit of this program permeates the activity is that of a thirty-two-year-old man who came to the storehouse. He was unable to read or write or even to speak. He was deeply disturbed. He was accepted by the other workers with love and understanding and was trained to accomplish a simple task. He learned to become a stock boy, stocking the shelves with commodities. Because he could not read, the staff placed pictures on the boxes so that he could match pictures and properly stack the cartons on the shelves. Through their patience and love, this young man has gained the ability to keep the shelves properly stocked with the proper commodities. Part of his compensation is provided in food which he takes to his parents and other members of his family to help provide for their needs. The happiness and fulfillment shown by this handicapped person as he receives the food to take home is truly an inspiration to all others.Where physical storehouses are not available, a cash system is used. In this case, the bishop signs an order filled out by the Relief Society president and has it presented to a local merchant with whom an advance agreement has been made. The cash to purchase these commodities comes from commodity production budget funds.Welfare production projects provide most of the commodities that stock the bishops storehouses. These projects include grain, dairies, beef cattle, honey bee projects, row crops, orchards, and so forth. They also include the manufacturing of some nonfood commodities. When the Church is fully matured, each stake will participate in some way in producing those things that are processed and stored and distributed from bishops storehouses. For those of you who are concerned about acquiring and managing a production project, may I refer you to Bishop H. Burke Peterson’s October 1976 welfare services session address.There are some cash needs for such things as utilities and medical expenses. The cash for these needs comes from fast offerings. As has been taught for many years, the commodity assistance should be used before cash. Again, may we reemphasize the importance of teaching the law of the fast so that our people will be even more generous than they are now and not restrict themselves to the cost of two meals.One of the inspiring aspects of welfare resources is the Welfare Services missionary program, where approximately 300 Welfare Services missionaries are serving in 39 missions of the Church. Their professional skills as they provide technical assistance to priesthood leaders cover such areas as agriculture, all areas of health maintenance, career development, and financial management. We continue to encourage all couples and single women of the Church who have skills in any of these or related areas to contact their bishop or stake president and make themselves available for this missionary service.Now, as to LDS Social Services: This organization was established to help priesthood leaders assist members who have social-emotional needs. These agencies provide assistance in two main categories—licensed services and clinical services. Licensed services include those functions which are governed by law, such as adoptions, foster care, and Indian student placement. Clinical services include professional therapy for individuals and families.In areas where LDS Social Services agencies do not exist, bishops should maintain a list of reputable professional personnel who provide similar services and who conform to the standards of the Church. With regard to licensed services, priesthood leaders should be careful to conform to local, state, and federal laws when adoption, unwed parent, or foster care services are provided.When professional counseling is being given, the bishop should remain close to the individual to be aware of progress being made or any additional problems.A most touching letter was received recently from a mother expressing her appreciation for her bishop and for a social services worker who had provided assistance in her family. May I quote from that letter:“The summer will be remembered as ‘the best thing that has happened to Roseanne and David to date’!“As you know, life has presented both children with special problems, and my heart has ached as I have seen David withdraw from social situations, and Roseanne offend and lose friends in her effort to make them.“There are those who can help with their physical problems—therapy for a boy and medication to help calm a hyperactive daughter—but where could I turn to find someone to understand and help with the resulting emotional problems?“When my bishop suggested LDS day camp I thought, ‘Good! This will be a good summer for them and will solve my baby-sitting problem, since it is necessary for me to work.’ Those two benefits would have made me feel the money invested was worthwhile—but they were just the beginning. Before the summer was over, I saw my son insist on taking the lead in a difficult hike up the canyon. In the past he had been content to follow behind. I saw him ‘rappel’ down the side of a building with the use of a rope, and the look of self-pride as he exchanged smiles with his counselor cannot be bought. By the end of the summer Roseanne had learned to put her frustrations into words and will most often try to reason with me in reaching a solution. This is a new experience for us.“Raising a hyperactive child is a lonely position to be in, because even though friends try to understand, they cannot and usually react as though the child has problems because she is spoiled. It has been great therapy for me to meet weekly with people who do understand.”Deseret Industries facilities are generally located only where there are large concentrations of members of the Church. They are established to provide employment for those who are unemployable, such as the aged, the mentally or physically handicapped, and so forth. They are founded on the principles of thrift, giving, working, and sharing. As concentrations of members increase, we would encourage priesthood leaders to investigate thoroughly the establishment of Deseret Industries facilities.And finally, employment: Employment responsibility rests largely with the priesthood quorum for the brethren and the Relief Society for the sisters. It is important that the system work smoothly and promptly if it is to bless the lives of those who need employment. In some areas where the employment problems are unusually high, full-time employment centers have been organized. This is done only to assist the quorum and the stake and ward welfare services committees carry out their assignment and should only be done with proper approval from headquarters.With these properly functioning and operating resources, the bishops of the Church, along with the ward welfare services committees, should be able to accomplish the work assigned by the Lord in taking care of the poor and the needy. As we do this, we will indeed be following Alma’s counsel:“And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and they did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no respect to persons as to those who stood in need.“And thus they did prosper. …” May we be blessed as the psalmist said: “Blessed is he that considereth the poor.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.