As I stand before you, I humbly pray that the Spirit of the Lord will attend us as it has as we have listened to the inspirational talks and this lovely choir.As I was talking to a man the other day, one of his employees passed by. My friend said, “There goes a man full of integrity. He has worked for my company for thirty years, and never at any time have I observed any thought or action of dishonesty or disloyalty. It gives a man a good feeling of confidence to have such an employee.”I have thought much about the word  since that day, as I often had before, and only wish that we and those with whom we deal would be completely honest and trustworthy, whether it be in matters pertaining to religion, science, economics, or local or national politics. Particularly in the home should integrity be taught and practiced as a basis for its extension into community life and all other phases of living.Aware of the need for a revival of this “old-fashioned” virtue, I concluded to address my remarks to this subject. Integrity, or the lack of it, touches almost every facet of our lives—everything we say, every thought and desire.From this very pulpit, and by some of the greatest religious leaders of modern time, we have heard sermons and exhortations upon honesty, trust, righteousness, dependability, truthfulness, kindness, justice, mercy, love, fidelity, and many other principles of right living.When one has integrated all of these attributes within his being, when they become the moving force of all his thoughts, actions, and desires, then he may be said to possess integrity, which has been defined as “a state or quality of being complete, undivided, or unbroken; moral soundness, honesty and uprightness.”Let us pursue this thought of a man being whole within himself, or undivided. Such a one would never find himself at war within himself as to which course to pursue or which decision to make. Constantly there would be a unity of purpose. There would not be, as someone has said, “one self for church, another self for business, another for recreation, home, travel, and so on.” This point is well expressed in the following verse by Edward Sanford Martin:The exact opposite of such vacillating is the life and character of the one to whom we should hold fast as the very ideal of integrity—Jesus Christ, the Savior, who taught that man cannot live a divided life, that he cannot serve both God and mammon, and that he cannot serve two masters. Not only were Christ’s teachings directed to a oneness of purpose, but his own life was the personification of integrity. This virtue is one of our greatest needs today.We need more integrity in  We need to be governed by men and women who are undivided in honorable purpose, whose votes and decisions are not for sale to the highest bidder. We need as our elected and appointed officials those whose characters are unsullied, whose lives are morally clean and open, who are not devious, selfish, or weak. We need men and women of courage and honest convictions, who will stand always ready to be counted for their integrity and not compromise for expediency, lust for power, or greed; and we need a people who will appreciate and support representatives of this caliber.A story is told of an English farmer at work one day in his fields when he saw a party of huntsmen riding about his farm. Concerned that they might ride into a field where the crop could be damaged by the tramp of horses, he sent one of his workmen to shut the gate and then keep watch over it and on no account to open it. He had scarcely arrived at his post when the hunters came up and ordered that the gate be opened. He declined to do so, stating the orders he had received, and steadfastly refused to open the gate in spite of the threats and bribes as one after another of the hunters came forward.Then one of the riders came up and said in commanding tones, “My boy, do you know me? I am the Duke of Wellington, one not accustomed to being disobeyed, and I command you to open that gate, that I and my friends may pass through.”The boy lifted his hat, and before the man whom all England delighted to honor, answered firmly, “I am sure the Duke of Wellington would not wish me to disobey orders. I must keep this gate shut, nor suffer anyone to pass but by my master’s express permission.”Greatly pleased, the duke lifted his own hat and said, “I honor the man or boy who can be neither bribed or frightened into doing wrong. With an army of such soldiers, I could conquer not only the French, but the world.” (Adapted from “The Boy Who Kept Out Wellington,” in  Salt Lake City: Juvenile Instructor Office, 1891, pp. 112–13.)As the duke evidenced, there is respect for persons who have integrity, and I am certain that disagreements and contention between nations could be resolved to the blessing and satisfaction of all concerned if the leaders could respect one another and approach their problems with complete candor.What of the  world and integrity? Business leaders and financiers should be the very epitome of integrity. Fortunately most of them are—but when we learn of wide-scale bribery, fraud, cheating, deceit, power plays to gain control of vast financial empires; when we have to legislate to make our dealings with one another honest and prevent one group from taking undue advantage of another, we know that integrity is lacking. If it were not, businesses could operate more successfully, employees would be more honest in their performance, and the products of their labor would not be inferior or shoddy. Even now the United States government is considering new ways to protect the consumer from fraudulent practices and inferior merchandise.If integrity guided the decisions and negotiations of  and  they would never, as many are wont to do, exercise unrighteous dominion over industry. All would work for the blessing and benefit of everyone else, and we could thus eliminate greed, oppression, poverty, and the human suffering they incur.Nor does our world of  escape the need of examining itself for integrity of purpose. Nowhere else, save in the home, is there greater opportunity to practice and to educate in the principles of integrity. There is an undeniable correlation between it and education. The famous English author, Samuel Johnson, understood it and expressed it in these few words: “Integrity without knowledge is weak and useless, and knowledge without integrity is dangerous and dreadful.” ( ch. 41.)What a dreadful world we would live in, and how fearful we would be, if there were not an unusual amount of integrity in the areas of the  and so on. Yet there still are some whose sole purpose should be, but is not, the blessing of mankind. Both instructors and students in these areas should be totally honest and aware.Imagine living in a world where crime was not rampant! This could be so. We bring upon ourselves much of the distress, heartache, and suffering we endure because of moral unsoundness and dishonesty, which are creeping into every vocation and realm of activity. As long ago as 1666, Jean Baptiste Molière, a famous French dramatist, wrote, “If everyone were clothed with integrity, if every heart were just, frank, kindly, the other virtues would be well-nigh useless, since their chief purpose is to make us bear with patience the injustices of our fellows.” ( act 5, scene 1.)As we have stated, there is much erosion in  through failure to apply the principle of integrity. Besides those mentioned we must add the  The very foundation of this basic unit of society is being undermined by infidelity, divorce, and total disregard of the sacred marriage vows. With such erosion come heartaches, untold suffering and distress, through the sins of adultery, fornication, and promiscuity when husbands and wives are unfaithful. Broken homes are one of the nation’s great tragedies and are increasing in number every day.Just imagine the reversal that would take place if full integrity were to rule in family life. There would be complete fidelity. Husbands would be faithful to wives, and wives to husbands. There would be no living in adulterous relationships in lieu of marriage. Homes would abound in love, children and parents would have respect for one another, and children would be reared in righteousness through —the greatest teacher of all.Our children should value honesty and integrity. They should know beforehand what their decisions will be when they are faced with crisis. They should know and understand that they are children of God, and that their eternal destiny is to so live that they will be worthy to return to his presence when they have completed their life’s mission. Adults should not hinder their progress, but help them always to be true to their ideals and principles.Gerhardt, a little German shepherd boy, was such an example. He was very, very poor, and one day as he was watching his flock, a hunter came out of the woods and asked the way to the nearest village. When the boy told him, he said if he would show him the way he would be rewarded handsomely. When Gerhardt replied that he could not leave his sheep for fear they might be lost, the hunter said, “Well, what of that? They are not your sheep, and the loss of one or two would not matter to your master. I will give you more money than you have earned in a year.”When the boy still declined, the hunter said, “Then will you trust me with your sheep while you go to the village and bring me food and drink and a guide?”The boy shook his head, saying, “The sheep do not know your voice.”Angrily the hunter retorted, “Can’t you trust me?”Gerhardt reminded him that he had tried to get him to break faith with his master and asked, “How do I know that you would keep your word to me?”Cornered, the hunter laughed and said, “I see you are a good faithful boy. I will not forget you. Show me the road and I will try to make it out by myself.”The hunter turned out to be the grand duke, and he was so pleased with Gerhardt’s honesty that he later sent for him and had him educated. Though Gerhardt became a rich and powerful man, he remained honest and true. (Adapted from “A Faithful Shepherd Boy,” in  Salt Lake City: Juvenile Instructor Office. 1891, pp. 11–13.)The integrity of which we speak is not impossible to attain. In fact, we should all be convinced that it is far easier to emulate the example of our Savior than it is to follow Satan, whose path leads us away from integrity and into darkness and misery. There is no happiness in sin, and when we depart from the path of righteousness we begin to do those things which will inevitably lead us to unhappiness and misery and loss of freedom.Now, what can we do to improve the conditions we have been discussing? Let each of us begin with himself to find out how he stands on the principle of integrity. Let us make an honest assessment of our hearts, our lives, our desires and goals, involving a recognition of all our faults. Then we should make a serious effort to set them right, to change directions toward the ideal of integrity and its associate virtues.Our eternal salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God, our Heavenly Father, will be determined by how we live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The early leaders of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, including the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates, understood the importance of integrity in their lives. They would not and could not make any compromise with revealed truth. Though Joseph Smith was ridiculed and persecuted for stating that he had seen a vision of the Father and the Son, he reported that he felt much like Paul when he made his defense before King Agrippa. Some said Paul was dishonest, others that he was mad. He was ridiculed and reviled.So it was with the Prophet Joseph. He said, “I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.” Joseph Smith also gave us another declaration incorporating integrity. In writing the Articles of Faith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he gave us these words as the Thirteenth Article:“We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.” Let each and every one of us incorporate this admonition into our everyday living.Among the Prophet’s close associates were those who led our pioneer forefathers across the wilderness to the Great Salt Lake Valley, to become a great and a mighty people according to divine prophecy. They could not have done so by compromising their principles.One of those who made that first long trek across the plains from the Mississippi River to the Salt Lake Valley was Heber C. Kimball, grandfather of our present-day prophet and leader, President Spencer W. Kimball. On one occasion he said:“God … is determined to save those who will take a course to secure their election and heirship to eternal life. All such people will prevail. If they fail in their integrity and firmness to the cause of righteousness, and repent not, they will lose all they have already gained, all they have expected, and all that has ever been promised to them that overcome.” ( 8:89.)To win the approbation of our Eternal Father and Jesus Christ, his Son, should be the supreme reward for integrity; and let us never suppose that such righteousness will ever go unnoticed or unrewarded. This is evident in a revelation given to Joseph Smith in January 1841, which made reference to his faithful brother, Hyrum, whose devotion brought him a martyr’s death when the two were murdered in Carthage Jail in 1844. I quote:“And again, verily I say unto you, blessed is my servant Hyrum Smith; for I, the Lord, love him because of the integrity of his heart, and because he loveth that which is right before me, saith the Lord.” This applies equally to the multitudes of righteous people throughout the world who deal with their fellowmen with integrity.The prophets of the Old and New Testaments, and those of the Book of Mormon, attained that integrity of heart that brought them the companionship of the Holy Spirit. Likewise, those who have presided and today preside over this restored kingdom of God do so with integrity, with complete devotion. Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the world over can be eternally grateful to know of the unwavering faith of these devoted General Authorities who sit upon the rostrum of this great Tabernacle today. They, with thousands of other leaders throughout the Church, are upright, sincere, and devoted to the trust placed upon them. They are unselfish in their service, humble and submissive to the mind and will of our Lord and Savior. Their utmost desire is to seek salvation and exaltation for themselves and their fellowmen.I bear witness that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Savior of the world, is the head of this church and directs its activities through his prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball.I would this day, with all my soul, pray that the hearts of men everywhere will be touched by that divine spark which will cause them to understand, accept, and live the teachings of Jesus Christ, which will prepare them for eternal life with God, our Heavenly Father. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.People everywhere today are hearing voices, strange voices enticing them to follow bye and forbidden paths which lead to destruction. Nowhere is this more evident than in the pleading tones of that chorus of discordant voices which speak of the Savior of the world himself.There are voices crying, “Lo, here is Christ” or “Lo there” [see  and meaning that various preachers are saying: “Believe in Christ, and be saved according to this system” or “according to that system.”A voice from the Koran acclaims Jesus as a prophet like Abraham and Moses, but sweeps aside the divine Sonship with the declaration that Allah has no need for a Son to redeem men; rather, he has but to speak and a thing is done.A voice from one sect, looking back to the cross, says: “We were saved 2,000 years ago, and there is nothing we can do about it one way or the other now.”Another voice proclaims: “Baptism is of no moment; simply believe; confess the Lord with your lips; no more is needed; Christ did it all.”Another sect sets aside the need for good works with the assertion that there will be a final harmony of all souls with God—all will be saved.Another sings out about confession, and penance, and purgatory, and the ritualistic rites of a priestly hierarchy. Another says our Lord was a great moral teacher, nothing more. Others believe the virgin birth was only a pious fiction fabricated by simple disciples who also made up the accounts of the miracles.And so it goes; all sects, parties, and denominations acclaim a Christ molded to fit their diverse theological idiosyncrasies. And as we know, this very babble of voices crying out that salvation comes through Christ, according to this or that conflicting system, is itself one of the signs of the times.Jesus foretold that in our day there would be false Christs and false prophets [see  meaning that false religions bearing his name would arise, and that false doctrines and false teachers would be everywhere.Amid it all may we raise the one voice which echoes the mind and will and voice of the Lord. Our voice is one which testifies of a true and living Christ; it is one which says that the Lord Jesus has revealed himself and his gospel anew in modern times; it is a voice which invites all men to come to Him who died on Calvary, and to live his laws as he has given them to modern prophets.May I now, as one who has come to a knowledge of the truth about our Savior, proclaim his divine Sonship and testify of that salvation which comes in and through his holy name and in no other way, and do it by the power of the Holy Ghost.I shall speak of the Gods of heaven and of our relationship to them and of what they expect of us. And may I say, at the outset, that all those whose hearts are open, and whose minds are enlightened by the power of the Holy Spirit, shall know of the truth of the doctrines I shall teach and the testimony I shall bear.We worship the Father, in the name of the Son, by the power of the Holy Ghost.Be it known, then, that there is a God in heaven who is infinite and eternal. He has all power, all might, and all dominion. There is no power he does not possess and no truth he does not know. Every good thing dwells in him independently in its eternal fulness. He is the Creator, Upholder, and Preserver of all things. His name is Elohim, and he is our Father in heaven, the literal Father of the spirits of all men. He has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s, and is in fact a resurrected and glorified Person. The name of the kind of life he lives is eternal life; and eternal life, by definition and in its nature, consists of life in an eternal family unit and of the possession of the fulness of the glory and power of the Father.The Lord Jesus, whose witnesses we are, is the Firstborn of the Father, the Firstborn of every creature. He was the Beloved and Chosen One from the beginning.When our Eternal Father ordained and established the plan of salvation; when the great Elohim set up the system which would enable us, his spirit children, to advance and progress and become like him; when the Father of us all offered eternal life to his children—he asked for volunteers to put his plan into operation.After all the hosts of heaven had been taught the gospel of God; after they knew of the perils and trials of a future mortality; after the need for a redeemer had been presented in the courts of glory—the Father propounded these questions and sent them forth through all the seraphic hosts of heaven:“Whom shall I send to be my Son? Who will put the terms and conditions of my plan into effect? Who will work out the infinite and eternal atonement, whereby all men shall be raised in immortality, with those who believe and obey being raised also unto eternal life?”Then it was that his Beloved and Firstborn Son responded:“Here am I, send me  I will be thy Son; I will sponsor thy plan, Father; I will take upon me the sins of all men on conditions of repentance; and, Father, the honor and the glory be thine forever” [see Then it was that this Favored One—this One, who, under the Father, had been the Creator of worlds without number—was chosen and foreordained and became the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.Then it was that the decree went forth that the great Jehovah should be born and die and rise again from the grave in glorious immortality, thus becoming in the full and literal sense like unto the Father.Then it was that the Firstborn in the spirit was chosen to become the Only Begotten in the flesh.Then it was that the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy [see  because immortality and eternal life would now be a reality.In due course came Adam and Eve; the fall of man, with its temporal and spiritual death; and the consequent promise of a Redeemer, a Savior, a Deliverer. The gospel of the Lord Jehovah was revealed so that men might worship the Father in his name and enjoy the words of eternal life on this earth and be inheritors of eternal life on the celestial earth that is to be.Adam and Eve made all things known to their seed [see  so they might believe in Christ, repent of their sins, be baptized, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and work the works of righteousness.Christ and his laws were revealed to all the holy prophets. As Peter said, “To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.” He was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of Israel, the Holy One, the Lord Omnipotent. He was the promised Messiah, the Savior and Redeemer, the Son of David; and at the appointed time he was born of a virgin in Bethlehem of Judea, according to the promises.From Mary, his mother, a mortal woman, he inherited the power of mortality, so that he was subject to all the temptations and ills of the flesh, including death itself. From God, his Father, an Immortal Man, he inherited the power of immortality, so that he had power to live forever, or having voluntarily laid down his life, to take it up again in immortal glory.He came into the world to ransom men from the temporal and spiritual death brought upon them by the fall of Adam. He came to satisfy the demands of divine justice and to bring mercy to the penitent. He came as a Mediator, as an Intercessor, to plead the cause of all those who believe in him.He came to bring immortality to all men as a free gift. He came to make eternal life available on conditions of obedience to the laws and ordinances of his gospel. He came to bring hope, to bring joy, to bring peace, to bring salvation; and his is the only name given under heaven whereby salvation comes.Our Lord—the Lord Jehovah, the Lord Jesus—is our hope and our salvation. He it is that hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. He has redeemed us from death, hell, the devil, and endless torment.After his resurrection he ascended up on high to sit on the right hand of the Father. He has appeared in our day, with his Father, who said: He has appeared many other times to converse with his earthly friends; and in the not distant future he will come again, with ten thousand of his angels, in all the glory of his Father’s kingdom, to usher in his personal reign of righteousness and peace. When he comes he will slay the wicked and judge the world; and every corruptible thing will be destroyed by the glory of his presence.He is our Friend, our Lawgiver, our King, and our Lord. We seek his face and desire to dwell in his presence. We are his people, the sheep of his fold.Our desire is “to be reconciled to God” through his blood, “for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.” As one of our fellow laborers of old said: “We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ,” so that all men “may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.” And so now, in keeping with our established practice and pursuant to the divine obligation laid upon us, I bear personal testimony of the divine Sonship of him who has saved us by his blood. He is truly God’s Almighty Son in whom we shall rejoice both now and forever.In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.