“But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.“For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:“For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was.“But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed.” I marvel as I study the scriptures how often the Lord has found it necessary to remind us of the blessings He has given to us, and how we should use those great gifts.As the Lord completed His creation of the earth and inspected that which He had accomplished, He saw that it was good. So God created male and female and blessed them. His first instructions to His newly created children were to be fruitful and multiply, replenish and subdue. There is also a consistency of this message in the Book of Mormon. The righteous who labor will enjoy the abundance and plenty of the earth. Turn from righteous labor, and only suffer scarcity, pain, and sorrow.The word of the Lord in modern scriptures again commands, “Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer.” It is evident from the scriptures that the Lord wants us to use the raw materials He has so abundantly blessed us with.The Savior in His earthly ministry taught us this principle by example, exhortation, and parable. The message was especially emphasized in the parable of the talents. Here the Savior tells us of a man who was traveling into a far-off country and called his servants together to deliver unto them his goods. To one he gave five talents, another two, and another one; to each man according to his several abilities. Then he left on his journey.Now they who had received the five and the two talents labored diligently to double that which they had received. But he who had received the one went and digged in the earth and hid his lord’s money. After some time the lord returned. To those who had gained the five and the two, the lord said, “Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.” Now he who had received the one went and digged in the earth and brought his talent forth, and he tried to alibi for not multiplying that which the lord had given him.The lord didn’t greet him with “Well done.” His greeting was, “Thou wicked and slothful servant.”  And then the lord said, “Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.“For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.”  As a kind and loving father, the Lord has taught His children the joy and satisfaction and the rewards associated with accomplishment.As those who have received the light of the gospel, we should be especially motivated to be the best in our performance. Could I challenge you in five areas to make a special effort to magnify the opportunities with which the Lord has blessed you?First, as husbands and wives: Our knowledge of this eternal relationship should cause us to be  determined to make a success of this important responsibility in our earthly existence.President Kimball has said, “Marriage is perhaps the most vital of all decisions and has the most far-reaching effects for it has to do not only with immediate happiness, but eternal joys as well. It affects not only the two people involved, but also their families and particularly their children and their children’s children down through the many generations.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Deseret Book Co., 1976, p. 10.)There is a devilish and all-too-popular plan today which would strike at the very roots of this essential and basic organization. Satan in his clever plan to destroy mankind has infiltrated the sacred ground of our homes. He is attempting to glamorize infidelity, make divorce commonplace, and popularize relationships outside of the marriage covenant. History gives abundant evidence that such a course will destroy mankind. Surely with our knowledge concerning the eternal nature of this sacred union between husband and wife, we should try with all diligence to make our marriages worthy of a celestial blessing.The Prophet Joseph Smith had a most remarkable way of handling a problem between himself and his wife. David Whitmer tells of an incident in the lives of Joseph and Emma Smith as follows:“One morning when [Joseph Smith] was getting ready to continue the translation, something went wrong about the house and he was put out about it. Something that Emma, his wife, had done. Oliver and I went upstairs and Joseph came up soon after to continue the translation but he could not do anything. He could not translate a single syllable. He went downstairs, out into the orchard, and made supplication to the Lord; [he] was gone about an hour—came back to the house, and asked Emma’s forgiveness and then came upstairs where we were and then the translation went on all right.” (B. H. Roberts,  1:131.)I wonder how long problems would exist between husband and wife if we allowed the Lord to cool our tempers and to bring reason back into our minds, if we would kneel before him and ask for strength to have forgiveness.I challenge you today to make something special of your marriage. Follow the counsel of the scriptures and have your marriage built on a foundation of faith in Christ and have it rooted and grounded in love. Second, the greatest of all blessings of an eternal union is the right to have an eternal family. If the Lord wills, righteous marriages should bring forth children. And they should have the privilege to come to the earth through a highly favored lineage.One of the choice privileges of a General Authority is perhaps thirty or forty times a year to visit the stakes of the Church and to be guests in the homes of stake presidents. I am certain we have seen firsthand some of the greatest homes there are in all the world.I remember being assigned to a conference some time ago in a stake where the president was a dentist. It was evident from his home and furnishings he had a successful practice. I guess he could have given his children almost anything they could have wanted. However, he loved them enough to teach them responsibility. He moved from the city out into a rural area, where he was teaching his family the value of work.How I enjoyed sitting with the children and having them describe the projects they had been assigned the responsibility for. With pride they would tell me how many eggs per day the chickens were producing, or how high the corn was, or how the cattle were in the field. This family had as their motto the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, 119th verse: “Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God.” I challenge you to make your home a house of God.Third—after love, understanding, and honesty in marriage—next in order of importance I believe is the financial stability of the family unit. In the division of responsibilities, the Lord has designated this area as the provider of the family to the husband and father. A family should grow up with the comforting assurance that so long as Dad possesses a sound mind and a strong body, he will continue to magnify his talents and develop his career. He will do his best in his preparation and make his performance such that he can provide comfortably for his family unit.Fathers, be honest in your business dealings. Be loyal to your employers. Determine to be the best in your chosen field of endeavor. Each day make a  effort to be more productive than you were the day before. I challenge you to be leaders in your chosen professions and occupations.Fourth, we have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have willingly placed our hand on the plow. We have accepted the obligation of building the kingdom of God here on earth. The scriptures tell us, “But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.”  Surely only the standard of excellence is the goal we should be attempting to achieve in the assignment we have been given in Church service. I challenge you to enthusiastically accept Church calls and with diligence make every effort to achieve the highest level of performance.Finally, our children deserve the right to grow up in a clean and wholesome environment. We have an obligation and a responsibility to safeguard this privilege for them.I received a most interesting letter from a mother a few months ago reporting to me her service hours to her community as a Bicentennial commitment. A portion of her letter read as follows: “I went to a P.T.A. meeting at the beginning of the school year and learned that my sixth-grade daughter was assigned to read a certain book in school. I felt impressed that I should read it to see if it was desirable for children. As I read it, I found it highly undesirable for sixth-graders. It contained profanity, violence, disrespect for adults, especially parents, and was generally gloomy and depressing, with nothing of love and beauty and goodness. I discussed the book with the principal of the school and told him of my concerns. He suggested that I read the whole series of books before condemning them, and if I still felt the same way I could write my objections in a letter and give them to him, giving specific examples of objectionable materials.“I complied with his suggestion and continued to read the other books and found them also unfit for our children. I felt compelled to write my letter even before I had finished the last in the series.“I was gratified to receive a call later from the assistant superintendent of this school district, asking me to come to his office. He told me it was not their policy to have books in their basic reading curriculum with profanity in them and that they would immediately remove those books from their school district. He said they were highly embarrassed that someone should have to point out to them the objectionable nature of the books, and that they would see that those persons responsible for reviewing the books in the future did a more thorough job.”We have been blessed with the light of the gospel to lead us and to guide and direct our lives. Through our understanding and study of the scriptures, we have a knowledge of the laws of the Lord by which we should govern our earthly conduct. With this great blessing comes an obligation to be a part of the communities in which we live. Our influence should be felt to safeguard the moral standards in the villages, in the towns, and in the cities where our homes are located in all parts of the world. I challenge you to become involved in lifting the moral standards of the communities where your homes are.May the light of the gospel help us to see the great potential the Lord has blessed us with. There is power in righteous living. May we again commit ourselves to be doers of the word—quality builders in our Father in heaven’s kingdom. May our lives be filled with the joy of accomplishment. May our knowledge of the gospel help us to be the best of whatever the Lord has called us to be, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.On a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of 1820, a fourteen-year-old boy knelt in a grove of trees and poured out his thoughts and feelings to God. What followed made his experience the most important event that had transpired in nearly 1,800 years. God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him in person—face to face.Subsequently, through this young man, whose name was Joseph Smith, God restored his church and the fulness of his gospel.This restoration is what made that experience so important. I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ that this is true. I know that he talked with God and that there was such a restoration because the Holy Spirit has borne witness of it to me. I say it without the slightest hesitation. I have a sure conviction that it happened.It is important that members of the Church know that each General Authority has that sure knowledge, for the Savior, referring to individual revelation, said to Peter, “And upon this rock [meaning the rock of individual revelation] I will build my church.” Serving the Lord is not an individual matter. It is a family affair. Every wife should support her husband in his Church responsibilities; every husband should support his wife in hers; every child his parent; every parent his children; every brother his sister; and every sister her brother.This builds the eternal family.I am grateful to my sweetheart, who has been a good companion, an outstanding mother, a dedicated wife, and a remarkable missionary companion. I am grateful to her parents, who have reared a righteous family; to our children, who have joined with us over the years in serving the Lord; to our families, who have been so loyal and supportive; and to my wonderful parents and brother, who, from their heavenly abode, I am confident, are aware of my recent calling to be an especial witness of the Savior.Missionary service is rewarding.Sister Derrick and I spent three satisfying years in northern England in missionary work. We had been home only forty-eight hours when the call came to return as soon as possible and preside over a new mission being established in the Republic of Ireland. What a glorious experience it has been.In Ireland, where social pressures are unusually strong, a father with tears running down his cheeks said, “They call me a fool—my family calls me a fool—my friends call me a fool; but I’ll take their abuse any and every day of the year in loyalty to my Savior who has led me to the true Church.”Still another, who had been particularly skeptical, on the night of his baptism said, “It’s true—but not only is it true, it is the whole truth and nothing but the truth.” So declare we to the world regarding this message of the Restoration.The more experience I gain in teaching the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, the more I am impressed with the concept of the  shared by a friend years ago which deserves a more broad exposure. Each of the Beatitudes represents a specific step in our orderly progression towards perfection, and teaches us how to qualify ourselves for exaltation, for the Bible concludes the chapter on the Beatitudes with the words, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.” The Savior began his sermon saying,  italics added.) When the Savior gave the same sermon to the people of ancient America, he said, “Blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”  “Who come unto me”—that clarifies the meaning.When I was a boy, a herd of horses ran wild on Ensign Flats just north of the Utah State Capitol building. In the summertime we would occasionally sit on the mountainside with binoculars and watch the herd as they roamed and grazed on the flat below. For the most part the horses appeared to be a mangy lot, but there was one that had a grace, a dignity, and a spirit that qualified him to lead the herd. We tried on several occasions to put a rope on this stallion. One day we succeeded, but we soon found that we had on the end of the rope a bundle of fury that we couldn’t manage. As hard as we tried, we couldn’t ride him. After several attempts we gave up and turned him loose. He was of no value to us.I was reading recently that when professionals train Arabian horses they work with them for several months. At the conclusion of the training period they are placed in a corral without food or water. After several days both food and water are placed some distance away, but within sight. The gate is then opened and the horses run to satisfy their appetites.Just before they reach the food and water, the trainer blows a whistle. Those that respond to the trainer’s whistle are singled out as the most valued. They are submissive to the master’s call.Under a mandate from the Lord we have 25,000 young men who are sifting the people of the world to find those that are submissive to Him and to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. We are finding an increasing number throughout the nations of the world who respond, but the vast majority prefer to satisfy their own appetites and to do things their own way instead of the Lord’s way.When we love the Lord we will submit ourselves to  plan and serve him with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength. This is the  step. We must take it in order to qualify for exaltation. The miracle of change begins when we come forth with a contrite spirit.The Savior then said,  italics added.) This is the  It is an essential one. The apostle Paul spoke of a godly sorrow for our sins when he said, “For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation.”  It is necessary to repent of our sins if we are to be forgiven and if the atonement of Jesus Christ is to be effective in our lives. Oh! how joyous it is to work with a person as he goes through the process of repentance, enters the water of baptism, and comes into the kingdom of God. There develops a bond of love and unity with those who have gone through this purifying process that the world does not understand.The Savior next said,  italics added.) To be meek is to be teachable. Those who are willing to listen can learn much. Those who are unwilling to listen deny themselves great blessings. You needn’t worry about being deceived, for the prophet Moroni wrote, “By the power of the Holy Ghost you may know the truth of all things.”  You have the receiving set within you to distinguish false doctrine from true doctrine. Follow the steps outlined by the Savior in the Beatitudes and your receiving set will become finely tuned. Then pray to God in sincerity for an answer and your receiving set will work. This is God’s way for us to discern the truth.The Savior further said,   italics added.) The Book of Mormon account reads, “For they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.”  This is important. The Holy Ghost is the great teacher and teaches us the truth of all things. God has documented his plan of salvation—a plan for  salvation. It is found in the holy scriptures and the Lord has commanded us to “search the scriptures.”  The plan is not complicated, but it is comprehensive. It is so comprehensive that we never stop learning, yet it is beautifully simple. The Lord has promised us all that if we follow his program we will learn “line upon line, precept upon precept”  until the perfect day.This promise is to every man. We should develop an insatiable appetite for knowledge pertaining to our salvation, for the Savior said, “And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”  There is no more important, exciting, and exhilarating subject than to learn about him who created the worlds and the plan he has prepared for us.As we begin to follow the teachings of the Savior, our thoughts and our hearts turn to others. The Savior continued,   italics added.) Happiness is a by-product of helping others. No man ever finds happiness by thinking of himself. True happiness comes when we lose ourselves in the service of others—when we are merciful to our fellowmen.Being merciful to others leads to purity of heart, for the Savior said,  italics added.)The by-product of a pure heart is inner peace. The Lord next said,    italics added.) When a man obtains inner peace he wants peace in his family. He wants peace in his community. He wants peace in the nation. And he wants peace in the world.Sister Derrick and I recently drove from Dublin to Limerick, Ireland. Along the way were signs painted on walls and bus stop enclosures: “Brits out—Peace in.” That is not the way nor the road to peace. Peace comes from within the individual. Establish peace in the hearts and minds of the citizens of a country and you’ll have peace in the nation. We declare to the world that living the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith will bring peace to the hearts of men and in turn will bring peace to the nations of the world.Teaching the doctrine of the Savior was never done without opposition. The Lord says of those who are willing to withstand social pressures and criticism and continue to serve him: “
	
        italics added.) And thus the Savior described the miracle of change that comes into one’s life when he accepts the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is a beautiful, miraculous, and soul-satisfying gift from God.The Savior concluded the Beatitudes by saying of those who conform their lives to these teachings, “Ye are the salt of the earth. …“Ye are the light of the world. …“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” The prophet Nephi, referring to the Savior, said, “He inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him.” To all men everywhere we reiterate that invitation to come unto the Savior the way he has outlined, partake of his goodness, “and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory”  “which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.