We have come to the close of these glorious days of great spiritual uplift, during which we have listened to words of inspiration and revelation from our presiding brethren. We have been blessed by hearing praises to the Lord sung by this great Tabernacle Choir.We have all felt the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord as we have assembled in his name to worship and be instructed by the power of the Holy Ghost. This has always been the pattern of the meetings of the saints, for we read in the Book of Mormon the words of Moroni, who said:“And their meetings were conducted by the church after the manner of the workings of the Spirit, and by the power of the Holy Ghost; for as the power of the Holy Ghost led them whether to preach, or to exhort, or to pray, or to supplicate, or to sing, even so it was done.” We have been counseled in the ways of righteousness, urged to be faithful and to keep the commandments of God, to love the Lord and our fellowmen. We have been warned against the pitfalls of following the ways of Satan and counseled to resist evil by being humble, prayerful, and submissive to the constant promptings of the Spirit. We have this great promise from the Lord given in our day:“Assuredly as the Lord liveth, who is your God and your Redeemer, even so surely shall you receive a knowledge of whatsoever things you shall ask in faith, with an honest heart, believing that you shall receive. …“Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.“Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation. …” Of all things, that for which we should be most grateful today is that the heavens are indeed open and that the restored church of Jesus Christ is founded upon the rock of revelation. Continuous revelation is indeed the very lifeblood of the gospel of the living Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.We proclaim to the world in one of our Articles of Faith, “We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.” From the scripture of ancient time comes this ringing declaration: “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.” This postulation to the prophet Amos has come down from antiquity and speaks of the Lord “Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.” We read of the unchangeable Lord in the holy scriptures. In the Bible, which we proclaim “to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly”  the Old Testament prophets from Adam to Malachi are testifying of the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father. Jesus Christ was the God of the Old Testament, and it was He who conversed with Abraham and Moses. It was He who inspired Isaiah and Jeremiah; it was He who foretold through those chosen men the happenings of the future, even to the latest day and hour.And the New Testament is what it implies—a new, additional witness and testimony of the sonship of Jesus Christ and the fatherhood of the Father and the divinity of this work, and the necessity of living the gospel, which he outlined and proclaimed.We do not accept the theory of the so-called teachers of Christianity, that the Old Testament constituted the total words of God’s prophets; nor do we believe the New Testament to be the end of revelation. We testify that rather than an end of revelations of God, they continue to pour forth from God for the welfare and benefit of men.I believe with Peter of old who said: “For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: But holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.” How this confused world of today needs revelation from God. With war and pestilence and famine, with poverty, desolation, with more and more graft, dishonesty, and immorality, certainly the people of this world need revelation from God as never before. How absurd it would be to think that the Lord would give to a small handful of people in Palestine and the Old World his precious direction through revelation and now, in our extremity, close the heavens.However, it is the sad truth that if prophets and people are unreachable, the Lord generally does nothing for them. Having given them free agency, their Heavenly Father calls, persuades, and directs aright his children, but waits for their upreaching hands, their solemn prayers, their sincere, dedicated approach to him. If they are heedless, they are left floundering in midnight’s darkness when they could have the noonday sun.When the children of Israel would not live the commandments, believe in him, and follow his program, the Lord said: “And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass:“And your strength shall be spent. …” If the Bible were “the end of the prophets,” then it was through lack of faith and belief, and that is the reason the heavens at times were closed and locked and became as iron, and the earth as brass. When the heavens are sealed, the spiritual darkness that follows is not unlike that physical darkness in Nephite history, when “neither candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled with their fine and exceedingly dry wood.” The Lord will not force himself upon people, and if they do not believe, they will receive no revelation. If they are content to depend upon their own limited calculations and interpretations, then, of course, the Lord will leave them to their chosen fate.Speaking of miracles and revelation, the Book of Mormon prophet Moroni states this:“If these things have ceased, then has faith ceased also; and awful is the state of man, for they are as though there had been no redemption made.” In the meridian of time, the Son of God, the Light of the World, came and opened the curtains of heaven, and earth and heaven were again in communion.But when the light of that century went out, the darkness was again impenetrable; the heavens were sealed and the “dark ages” moved in.I bear witness to the world today that more than a century and a half ago the iron ceiling was shattered; the heavens were once again opened, and since that time revelations have been continuous.That new day dawned when another soul with passionate yearning prayed for divine guidance. A spot of hidden solitude was found, knees were bent, a heart was humbled, pleadings were voiced, and a light brighter than the noonday sun illuminated the world—the curtain never to be closed again.A young lad spoken of by some of our brethren today, Joseph Smith, of incomparable faith, broke the spell, shattered the “heavens of iron” and reestablished communication. Heaven kissed the earth, light dissipated the darkness, and God again spoke to man, revealing anew “his secret unto his servants the prophets.”  A new prophet was in the land and through him God set up his kingdom, never to be destroyed nor left to another people—a kingdom that will stand forever.The foreverness of this kingdom and the revelations which it brought into existence are absolute realities. Never again will the sun go down; never again will all men prove totally unworthy of communication with their Maker. Never again will God be hidden from his children on the earth. Revelation is here to remain.In the early years of his newly established dispensation, the Lord set his divine law of succession, and prophets have followed each other and will continue to follow each other in never-ending, divinely appointed succession, and the secrets of the Lord will be revealed without measure.By the power of God other books of scripture have come into being. Vital and priceless records of ancient America, with teachings of Christ, another testimony of his divinity, form the Book of Mormon, which we declare to be divine scripture, contemporary with and sustaining the Bible.Since that momentous day in 1820, additional scripture has continued to come, including the numerous and vital revelations flowing in a never-ending stream from God to his prophets on the earth. Many of these revelations are recorded in another scripture called the Doctrine and Covenants. Completing our Latter-day Saint scriptures is the Pearl of Great Price, another record of revelation and translated writings of both ancient and modern prophets.There are those who would assume that with the printing and binding of these sacred records, that would be the “end of the prophets.” But again we testify to the world that revelation continues and that the vaults and files of the Church contain these revelations which come month to month and day to day. We testify also that there is, since 1830 when The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and will continue to be, so long as time shall last, a prophet, recognized of God and his people, who will continue to interpret the mind and will of the Lord.Now, a word of warning: Let us not make the error of the ancients. Numerous modern sectarians believe in the Abrahams, the Moseses, and the Pauls, but resist believing in today’s prophets. The ancients also could accept the prophets of an earlier day, but denounced and cursed the ones who were their contemporaries.In our day, as in times past, many people expect that if there be revelation it will come with awe-inspiring, earth-shaking display. For many it is hard to accept as revelation those numerous ones in Moses’ time, in Joseph’s time, and in our own year—those revelations which come to prophets as deep, unassailable impressions settling down on the prophet’s mind and heart as dew from heaven or as the dawn dissipates the darkness of night.Expecting the spectacular, one may not be fully alerted to the constant flow of revealed communication. I say, in the deepest of humility, but also by the power and force of a burning testimony in my soul, that from the prophet of the Restoration to the prophet of our own year, the communication line is unbroken, the authority is continuous, and light, brilliant and penetrating, continues to shine. The sound of the voice of the Lord is a continuous melody and a thunderous appeal. For nearly a century and a half there has been no interruption.Man never needs to stand alone. Every faithful person may have the inspiration for his own limited kingdom. But the Lord definitely calls prophets today and reveals his secrets unto them as he did yesterday, he does today, and will do tomorrow: that is the way it is.As we sang “We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet” earlier in the afternoon, a thought ran through my mind which I have expressed before. I hope you were all thinking of Joseph Smith, of Brigham Young, of John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, and all the other Presidents. I hope you were thinking of President David O. McKay and President Joseph Fielding Smith, President Harold B. Lee and all of those who have filled this position in these days.They have contributed a great service. They have done a great work for the people of this world. They have organized the Church and continued to develop it, and it has grown tremendously under their care.I hope we will always remember that and not let it all be centered in the living person who currently serves, because the works of God continue in all these areas.Before I close I should like to mention two other matters. One, I hope you have had the opportunity to see the four beautiful statues that have been placed just east of the temple in the central Church plaza. These four are a part of the group of thirteen statues honoring women that will be set up next year in the Relief Society park in Nauvoo, at the visitors center there. These four have been placed in the plaza for your enjoyment. They are lovely indeed. We invite you to visit that area and see the statues while you are here in Salt Lake City.I was impressed when Elder Gordon B. Hinckley spoke of Joseph Smith so tenderly, and sweetly, and the thought went through my mind of that last night in Carthage, Illinois. They were gathered together with the mob all around them and the Prophet Joseph Smith asked one of the brethren to sing for him “A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief.”God bless you, brothers and sisters. It has been a wonderful conference and a joy to mingle with you these days. Peace be with you; and may his joy and peace continue with you. We know it is true. I know the Lord lives and I know that he is revealing his mind and will to us daily, so that we can be inspired as to the direction to go.We ask this all, with our affection for you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Elder Monson and I have traveled a good many miles together, over a good many years. Elder Monson and I and Louis Jacobsen likewise traveled together for a long time over the years of our lives. And I hope, with Brother Monson’s permission, I may now travel with him a little farther on the road to Jericho.Anciently Jesus asked the Pharisees this question: “What think ye of Christ?” Those Pharisees were so misdirected in their thinking that “no man was able to answer him a word.”  But had they known it, the question was vital to their own best interests, just as it is to our well-being today.What think ye of Christ? To bring it down to our own day, let us ask ourselves, What do we, personally, think of him?Latter-day Saints are able to identify him very quickly. Christ is Jesus of Nazareth, who was born of Mary in Bethlehem. He also is our Redeemer and our Creator, the divine Son of God.But knowing who he is, what shall we do about him? Shall we fully accept him, or brush him aside, or take some middle-of-the-road attitude and compromise our beliefs according to existing pressures?The misdirected Pharisees with whom he spoke took pride in rites and rituals, but were nevertheless condemned by the Lord because they neglected the weightier matters of the law: fair judgment, mercy, and the exercise of true faith which produces righteous works.When the Savior spoke of those weightier matters he referred to personal relationships between people, such as Brother Monson has been talking about. It is significant that he made those relationships a vital part of his gospel. It is indeed remarkable that the nature of our dealings with our fellowmen will determine, in large measure, our status in the kingdom of heaven.In other words, we ourselves may be like the ancient Pharisees. We may attend to rites and rituals and yet overlook the weightier matters such as brotherly kindness, honesty, mercy, virtue, and integrity. Let us never forget that if we omit them from our lives we may be found unworthy to come into His presence.Think for a moment of the second great commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves.  How many observe it? Keep in mind that the Lord said it is of like importance to the first great commandment, which is to love God with all our heart and soul.Consider, too, his commandment to do unto others as we would be done by. How many live that law? How many go down that road to Jericho?Read again the parable of the Good Samaritan  especially in light of the last part of the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew. Do not these scriptures teach that if we fail to do right by our fellowmen we seriously jeopardize our own salvation? Note the Lord’s words:“I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:“I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: … sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. …“Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.” Those to whom he spoke, who were thus neglectful, were not counted with the sheep of his fold. They were not on his favored right hand, but on his left where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth. “And these,” the scripture says, “shall go away into everlasting punishment.” The First Epistle of John tells us that if we do not have good relationships with our neighbors, whom we have seen, we cannot rightfully claim to love God, whom we have not seen. Do we take time occasionally to read the Sermon on the Mount? It refers largely to our relationships with one another. Let me mention just a few of its principles. I quote from this sermon as it appears in the Book of Mormon:“If ye shall come unto me, or shall desire to come unto me, and rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee—“Go thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I will receive you.” Can we suppose for one moment that the Lord would welcome us on any other basis?And then we have this: “If ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father will also forgive you;“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Note what a great principle is involved here, and how it can affect each one of us. “If ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Let us pause a moment and ask ourselves if we can enter his kingdom with unforgiven sins.And then he said: “Judge not, that ye be not judged.“For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.” In the first section of the Doctrine and Covenants we read that “the Lord shall come to recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man.” This teaching deserves the most careful consideration, for on judgment day the Lord will mete out to us precisely as we have dealt with our fellowmen, unless we have fully repented. It is a staggering thought, and yet it is an integral factor in the Lord’s method of judgment. Do we realize its broad significance? Do we see how we shall reap what we sow?This principle, showing the manner by which God will judge us, puts a new light upon the commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves, and should persuade us to take that law seriously.It also helps us to understand the deep meaning of the Golden Rule: “All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” This is a commandment, and to further emphasize it the Lord said: “This is the law and the prophets.” It is not something we may lightly set aside. Does it not help us to better understand the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew? Can we see then his purpose in disciplining people for being unkind to their fellowmen?What makes it even more compelling is another statement which the Lord gave us in the Sermon on the Mount, and this to me is awesome. Said the Lord, “Verily I say unto you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have commanded you at this time, ”  italics added.)Frightening, isn’t it?With this scripture we should keep in mind another divine declaration: “And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end. …“And he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is also hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence they can no more return, because of the justice of the Father.” Doesn’t that startle you? Doesn’t it convince you that we must take his commandments seriously?When we ask, “What think ye of Christ,” should we not ask ourselves also if we truly accept the high standards of life he has established for admittance into his kingdom? Compliance with them is what puts oil in our lamps, if we may refer to the Lord’s parable.If we hope to enter his kingdom, we cannot regard these basic commandments as if they were optional. He has said, “This is the way, walk ye in it.” If we are unkind, unclean, dishonest, or cruel; if we are hypocritical and appear pious when in fact our hearts are evil, we throw our hope of salvation to the four winds, unless we truly repent.As he spoke to the Nephites, the Savior asked: “What manner of men ought ye to be?” And he quickly replied, “Even as I am.” We all remember these familiar words: “Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven.”  This, too, should give us pause, for mere protestations of faith will not admit us into the kingdom, even though we may say, “Have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works?” If we have not obeyed the weightier matters of the law, dealing justly with our fellowmen, he will surely say to us: “I never knew you; depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” This helps us to better understand the words of Paul as he said: “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.“And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.“And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.” And what is charity in its true sense? It is the pure love of Christ which helps us to love both God and our fellowmen.In the book of Alma we read a further explanation: “If ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth) and is trodden under foot of men.” The Lord teaches us that we cannot serve two masters, God and Mammon, at the same time  but many still try to do so!Why is the Lord so strict in requiring detailed obedience from us? It is because he expects us to become perfect as he is. The very object of our existence as children of God is to become like Him. But no unclean thing may enter his presence. Therefore we must perfect ourselves, beginning here in mortality, keeping in mind that we cannot achieve perfection through imperfect means.That is why God is so strict. That is why he cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance.One of our great failings is that often we are slothful in complying with the commandments. With respect to this he said: “It is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward. …“But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.” The Prophet Abinadi gave us further understanding of this vital principle in these words: “The Lord redeemeth none such that rebel against him and die in their sins; yea, even all those that have perished in their sins ever since the world began, that have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known the commandments of God, and would not keep them; these are they that have no part in the first resurrection. …“For salvation cometh to none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none such; yea, neither can the Lord redeem such.” But nevertheless the Lord invites all to come unto him on conditions of repentance, and says: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” So what are we to do? We are to “seek … first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.”  We are to give our religion first priority in our lives, and then serve God with all our hearts and do unto others as we would be done by as we travel down the road to Jericho. And that we may do so is my humble and earnest prayer in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.