I am very happy to greet you, my brothers and sisters, and for the few moments that I stand before you today, I have selected as a text for my talk the words of the apostle Paul as recorded in the second chapter of First Corinthians, where Paul said that the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and the things of man are understood by the spirit of man. (See “But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him.”  I take it that that is the reason we have nearly a thousand churches here in this great land of ours, because men with their own wisdom have not been able to understand the things of God as they are given by our Father’s holy prophets because, as Paul said, they are foolishness unto them.I think of the words of the prophet Isaiah when he said:“Because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.“Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left.” I am sure that he had in mind these thousand churches that are following the precepts of men, and that is what Isaiah had in mind when he said:“Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:“Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid.” Now I would like to point out a few of the differences between the ways of men and their teachings and the truth as the Lord has revealed it through his holy prophets. First, I refer to the way they believe in the Trinity. When the Prophet Joseph saw his vision, the whole Christian world believed in a God without body, parts, or passions. That means he had no eyes; he couldn’t see. He had no ears; he couldn’t hear. He had no mouth; he couldn’t speak. Moses knew that this condition would prevail, for when he went to lead the children of Israel into the Promised Land, he told them that they would not remain there long, but that they would be scattered among the nations, and that they would worship gods made by the hands of man (that’s man’s doing) that could neither see, nor hear, nor taste, nor smell. (See  That’s exactly the kind of a god the whole Christian world was worshipping at the time Joseph Smith had his vision. But Moses didn’t leave it at that. He said in the latter days (and we live in the latter days) that if they would seek after God they would surely find him. (See  Joseph Smith sought after him and found him.At one time the Prophet Joseph visited the President of the United States, and the President asked him the difference between his church and other churches, and the Prophet said, “We have the Holy Ghost.” And when one has the Holy Ghost, he is laboring under the divine direction of God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ. He is not dependent upon the ways of man, and as Paul pointed out, the ways of God are foolishness unto men because they can’t comprehend them.Compare, now, that idea of God with the experience of the Prophet Joseph. As a young man, he went into the woods to pray in answer to the invitation of the apostle James, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.”  And in answer to his prayer, a light descended from heaven, brighter than the noonday sun, and in the midst of that light were two glorious personages: the Father and the Son. The Father said to Joseph: “This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!” And then the Savior of the world, whose right it is to pass judgment upon the right and wrong of all individuals and groups, asked Joseph what he wanted to know, and he asked which of all the churches he should join. The Savior answered that he should join none of them, for they all taught for doctrine the precepts of men. And that is the reason for the thousand churches in the United States today—it is because they follow the precepts of men rather than the revelations.Now I would like to discuss a few of the differences in our concepts. They have changed many of the ordinances. For instance, they no longer baptize as Jesus was baptized when he went to John to be baptized of him. They went down into the waters of the Jordan, and John baptized him, and they came up out of the water. The apostle Paul said there is “one Lord, one faith, one baptism.”  And if that is true, you’d think that everybody would want to follow the example of the Savior himself when he was baptized by immersion in the River Jordan.Today little children are sprinkled as infants by their ministers. That isn’t an act of the child himself, it is an act of his parents. John, who was banished upon the Isle of Patmos, saw the great day when the dead, both small and great, would stand before God and would be judged according to the things that were written in the books, according to their works. (See  Children couldn’t be given credit for having been baptized of their own volition—it was the act of their parents, to take them to be sprinkled.When the people brought their children to Jesus and the apostles tried to prevent them from approaching Him, He rebuked them and said, “Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.”  And then he took those little children into his arms and blessed them; and that is the pattern for his church when we understand the things of God instead of the things of man. Man’s idea is to have them sprinkled with a little water, which isn’t a baptism.When Jesus sent the apostles into all the world, following his resurrection, he told them to teach the gospel to every nation, and “he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.”  The children when they are baptized as little infants do not believe. They can’t understand. The Lord understood that condition, too. That is why he set the example by taking the little children into his arms.In the Book of Mormon we read the words of the prophet Mormon to his son Moroni, and I would like to read you just a few words. He said:“I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.“And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the atonement of him and the power of redemption.” I think the thought in sprinkling little children (infant baptisms) was to wash away the sin of Adam and Eve, but the apostle Paul tells us, “For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”  If that were not true, how would he have atoned for the sins of Adam unless he wiped away the original sin committed by Adam and Eve? And so they have changed the laws and the ordinances.Now they believe today (man’s interpretation) that we no more need prophets and apostles, that all those things have been done away, and prophecies, too. But Amos said, “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.” There has never been a time when the Lord has had a people on this earth that there wasn’t a prophet at their head to whom He could communicate His mind and will for the direction of His people.Then the apostle Paul told us that the Lord had placed in His church apostles and prophets, pastors and teachers, and evangelists for the work of the ministry (that is the great missionary program), for the edifying of the body of Christ (that’s the teaching in our auxiliaries and home teaching and priesthood teaching and so forth), for the perfecting of the saints (that comes through the service that they render), “till we all come in the unity of the faith.” (See We haven’t come to a unity of the faith, and if they do away with the instruments that the Lord placed there to bring us to a unity of the faith, how can we ever hope to arrive at that unity? Then he goes on to say that they “henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, … and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive.” And that’s what we have when we follow the philosophies of men rather than the leadership of his holy prophets.We listen to preachers on the radio and television today saying, “Come unto Jesus and recognize him, and confess him as your only Savior, and you’ll be saved.” How little do they realize that that is only a step in the right direction. That’s why Jesus said:“Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.“Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?“And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” In other words, they had departed from the foundation that he placed in his church and the responsibilities that would follow membership in the Church. If all we have to do is to confess our belief in the Savior, what would you do with the Savior’s parable of the talents? You remember: to one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one. Then after a time he came and held an accounting with those servants, and the one who had received five talents had won another five; the one who had received two had won another two; and unto them he said: “Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.” The one who had received the one talent went and buried it in the earth. He said:“I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:“And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.” And what did the Master say?“Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.“For unto every one that hath shall be given, … but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.“And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” That doesn’t sound like all we have to do is to confess. And you remember that the apostle James said that the devils know that He is the Savior, but they sinned. (See  And he said that “faith without works is dead.” You remember when John saw the final winding-up scenes, when we should have a new heaven and a new earth, and when the dead, small and great, should stand before God. And the books were to be opened, and every man judged according to the things that were written in the books,  and not according to just their faith. (See  And so works become necessary for membership in the Church.Now there are many other differences, but there isn’t time to discuss them. But I would like to mention just one more. You remember how the whole world believed that the thief upon the cross went to heaven with the Savior because He said: “To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.”  Now the men of this world, understanding things according to man’s wisdom, thought he went to heaven. But according to divine truth, he went only to paradise where the Savior arranged for the gospel to be preached to him to prepare him so that he would be worthy to stand with the sanctified and the redeemed of his people.Now there are many other differences, as we know, and as we study, so that we understand what Paul meant when he said that the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and the things of man are understood by the spirit of man, and “the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him.”  May the Lord help us all to understand his truths and to follow the leadership of our living prophet, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.My brothers and sisters and friends, one goal that most of us share in this life is the desire to achieve true joy and lasting happiness. There is only one way to do this, and that is by being obedient to all the commandments of God. As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have voluntarily entered into holy covenants, promising to obey the Lord’s commandments. Willing, righteous obedience leads to celestial life; indeed, there is no eternal progress without it. Yet obedience to the commandments of God seems to be one of man’s most difficult challenges.Some people do not obey because they feel their free agency will be trampled upon if they consider themselves subservient to Church authorities or enter into binding ordinances. Others willfully choose an existence of being “contrary to the nature of happiness.”  Still others, products of an undisciplined life, persist in their weaknesses and justify their course of action by shrugging and saying, “That’s just the way I am.”Disobedience to God and His chosen servants ignores the fact that we are all the children of an Eternal Father who has endowed us with the capacity to be as He and His Son Jesus Christ are—perfected, glorified, holy personages. Often we forget that obedience must be learned. Even Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten Son of God, learned perfect obedience, which qualified Him to serve as our Lawgiver and Lord. In Hebrews we read:“Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;“And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him.” We now tread in the same path that He trod. That path has been clearly marked out for each of us with signs and warnings to guide us along the way, preventing us from being diverted and lost. But, like Jesus, we must learn obedience. That is the purpose of our mortal life. If we fail in this experience, we will not find the true happiness that leads to exaltation.There are several ways the Lord has set for us to learn obedience, so we may prove ourselves and merit His approval and blessings here and eternal glory with Him in the worlds to come.First of all, we have not been left to walk alone. The Lord has clearly revealed His will concerning His children and shown us His plan of redemption. His laws are explicitly recorded in the standard works of the Church, which are the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price.The Prophet Joseph Smith taught:“We cannot keep all the commandments without first knowing them, and we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received.” ( p. 256.)Concerning scripture study, the Prophet also taught: “He who reads it oftenest will like it best.” ( p. 56.)The scriptures contain the promises of the Lord to His obedient children. Where the Lord God commands, He also promises great rewards to those who obey. We read from the Bible:“And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. …“The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways.” Now a quote from the Book of Mormon:“And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his commandments ye should prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his commandments he doth bless you and prosper you.“And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and granted unto you your lives, for which ye are indebted unto him.“And secondly, he doth require that ye should do as he hath commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you; and therefore he hath paid you. And ye are still indebted unto him, and are, and will be, forever and ever.” Next, from the Doctrine and Covenants:“For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you.” “I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.” Finally, from the Pearl of Great Price:“And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;“And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever.” These scriptural passages clearly state that great rewards are promised to those who obey.A second way we learn obedience is by following the counsel of living prophets and other appointed Church leaders. We are fortunate to live in a time when a living prophet is on the earth to counsel and guide us. Our Heavenly Father communicates His will through His prophet, and God will not permit His prophet to lead His people astray. The importance of the words of God’s prophet has been clearly stated to the Church as follows:“Thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me;“For his word ye shall receive,  in all patience and faith.”  italics added.)Then follows this promise to us when we heed the Lord’s admonition:“For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name’s glory.” The Lord has also provided local authorities—stake and district presidents, bishops and branch presidents. In a letter from the First Presidency, dated January 29, 1973, Church members were admonished:“The Lord has so organized His Church that there is accessible to every member—man, woman, and child—a spiritual advisor, and a temporal counselor as well, who knows them intimately and who knows the circumstances and conditions out of which their problems come, and who, by reason of his ordination, is entitled to an endowment from our Heavenly Father of the necessary discernment and inspiration of the Lord to enable him to give the advice which the one in trouble so much needs. We refer to the Bishop or Branch President. If the Bishop or Branch President needs assistance, he may go to the Stake or Mission President. These brethren may in turn seek counsel from one of the General Authorities, should such be necessary.”If a matter cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the first steps of this process, we should be obedient and supportive of those who preside over us until further counsel is received.Third, we learn obedience by disciplining our lives in all things. One process by which we discipline ourselves is by repentance, for it “is the way to annul the effects of a previous lack of obedience in one’s life.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Bookcraft, 1969, p. 28.)We must recognize that mortality has been granted to us as a probationary state where all physical appetites are to be mastered. It is far more difficult to repent in the spirit world of sins which involve physical habits and actions. The words of Amulek in the Book of Mormon give emphasis to this principle: “Behold,” he said, “now is the time and the day of your salvation. …“This life is the time for men to prepare to meet God. …“If we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed. …“That same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.” It is obvious we either discipline our lives here, or pay the price for the undisciplined life in the world to come.Finally, we learn obedience, as the Savior did, by the things which we suffer. As we consider the lives of Saints in both past and present dispensations, we learn their lives were refined by affliction, hardship, persecution, and personal suffering. Job, who was no stranger to affliction, said in the time of his trials: “[God] knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.” In the despair of his own personal suffering, Joseph Smith was reminded that suffering can make saints of mortal men when they are “willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [them], even as a child doth submit to his father.” Sometime in the eternities to come, we will see that our trials were calculated to cause us to turn to our Heavenly Father for strength and support. Any affliction or suffering we are called upon to bear may be directed to give us experience, refinement, and perfection.The Lord has revealed in this dispensation that our rewards in the eternities are predicated on our level of obedience. If we are fully obedient to celestial law, fulfilling the laws of Christ, we will be worthy of a celestial glory. But for those who do not fully comply with celestial law, other lesser degrees of glory have been prepared, for the scriptures record:“They who are not sanctified through the … law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom.“For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory.” And this is the promised reward for those who completely comply with the laws of the celestial kingdom and endure to the end:“They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things—“They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory.” Keeping the commandments of God is not a difficult burden when we do it out of love of Him who has so graciously blessed us. The Savior has implored us to “take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” Our willingness to comply with the commandments of God is a witness of our faith in Him and our love for Him. A rebellious disposition cannot inherit the celestial kingdom.In the Doctrine and Covenants we learn:“But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh saints, to the poor and afflicted among them;“And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom;“And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself.“And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer.” By reading the scriptures, heeding the counsel of God’s prophets and other divinely called Church leaders, disciplining our lives, and enduring our burdens in faith, our natures will become refined and perfected.May we keep before us this wisdom which flowed from the pen of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the early Saints of this dispensation:“In obedience there is joy and peace unspotted, unalloyed; and as God has designed our happiness … He never will institute an ordinance or give a commandment to His people that is not calculated in its nature to promote that happiness which He has designed, and which will not end in the greatest amount of good and glory to those who become the recipients of his law and ordinances.” ( 5:135.)“When the Lord commands, do it,” was a rule in the life of the first prophet of this dispensation. May that be the motto and practice of each one of us, I humbly pray, as I bear witness to the truth in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.