People everywhere today are hearing voices, strange voices enticing them to follow bye and forbidden paths which lead to destruction. Nowhere is this more evident than in the pleading tones of that chorus of discordant voices which speak of the Savior of the world himself.There are voices crying, “Lo, here is Christ” or “Lo there” [see  and meaning that various preachers are saying: “Believe in Christ, and be saved according to this system” or “according to that system.”A voice from the Koran acclaims Jesus as a prophet like Abraham and Moses, but sweeps aside the divine Sonship with the declaration that Allah has no need for a Son to redeem men; rather, he has but to speak and a thing is done.A voice from one sect, looking back to the cross, says: “We were saved 2,000 years ago, and there is nothing we can do about it one way or the other now.”Another voice proclaims: “Baptism is of no moment; simply believe; confess the Lord with your lips; no more is needed; Christ did it all.”Another sect sets aside the need for good works with the assertion that there will be a final harmony of all souls with God—all will be saved.Another sings out about confession, and penance, and purgatory, and the ritualistic rites of a priestly hierarchy. Another says our Lord was a great moral teacher, nothing more. Others believe the virgin birth was only a pious fiction fabricated by simple disciples who also made up the accounts of the miracles.And so it goes; all sects, parties, and denominations acclaim a Christ molded to fit their diverse theological idiosyncrasies. And as we know, this very babble of voices crying out that salvation comes through Christ, according to this or that conflicting system, is itself one of the signs of the times.Jesus foretold that in our day there would be false Christs and false prophets [see  meaning that false religions bearing his name would arise, and that false doctrines and false teachers would be everywhere.Amid it all may we raise the one voice which echoes the mind and will and voice of the Lord. Our voice is one which testifies of a true and living Christ; it is one which says that the Lord Jesus has revealed himself and his gospel anew in modern times; it is a voice which invites all men to come to Him who died on Calvary, and to live his laws as he has given them to modern prophets.May I now, as one who has come to a knowledge of the truth about our Savior, proclaim his divine Sonship and testify of that salvation which comes in and through his holy name and in no other way, and do it by the power of the Holy Ghost.I shall speak of the Gods of heaven and of our relationship to them and of what they expect of us. And may I say, at the outset, that all those whose hearts are open, and whose minds are enlightened by the power of the Holy Spirit, shall know of the truth of the doctrines I shall teach and the testimony I shall bear.We worship the Father, in the name of the Son, by the power of the Holy Ghost.Be it known, then, that there is a God in heaven who is infinite and eternal. He has all power, all might, and all dominion. There is no power he does not possess and no truth he does not know. Every good thing dwells in him independently in its eternal fulness. He is the Creator, Upholder, and Preserver of all things. His name is Elohim, and he is our Father in heaven, the literal Father of the spirits of all men. He has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s, and is in fact a resurrected and glorified Person. The name of the kind of life he lives is eternal life; and eternal life, by definition and in its nature, consists of life in an eternal family unit and of the possession of the fulness of the glory and power of the Father.The Lord Jesus, whose witnesses we are, is the Firstborn of the Father, the Firstborn of every creature. He was the Beloved and Chosen One from the beginning.When our Eternal Father ordained and established the plan of salvation; when the great Elohim set up the system which would enable us, his spirit children, to advance and progress and become like him; when the Father of us all offered eternal life to his children—he asked for volunteers to put his plan into operation.After all the hosts of heaven had been taught the gospel of God; after they knew of the perils and trials of a future mortality; after the need for a redeemer had been presented in the courts of glory—the Father propounded these questions and sent them forth through all the seraphic hosts of heaven:“Whom shall I send to be my Son? Who will put the terms and conditions of my plan into effect? Who will work out the infinite and eternal atonement, whereby all men shall be raised in immortality, with those who believe and obey being raised also unto eternal life?”Then it was that his Beloved and Firstborn Son responded:“Here am I, send me  I will be thy Son; I will sponsor thy plan, Father; I will take upon me the sins of all men on conditions of repentance; and, Father, the honor and the glory be thine forever” [see Then it was that this Favored One—this One, who, under the Father, had been the Creator of worlds without number—was chosen and foreordained and became the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.Then it was that the decree went forth that the great Jehovah should be born and die and rise again from the grave in glorious immortality, thus becoming in the full and literal sense like unto the Father.Then it was that the Firstborn in the spirit was chosen to become the Only Begotten in the flesh.Then it was that the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy [see  because immortality and eternal life would now be a reality.In due course came Adam and Eve; the fall of man, with its temporal and spiritual death; and the consequent promise of a Redeemer, a Savior, a Deliverer. The gospel of the Lord Jehovah was revealed so that men might worship the Father in his name and enjoy the words of eternal life on this earth and be inheritors of eternal life on the celestial earth that is to be.Adam and Eve made all things known to their seed [see  so they might believe in Christ, repent of their sins, be baptized, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and work the works of righteousness.Christ and his laws were revealed to all the holy prophets. As Peter said, “To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.” He was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of Israel, the Holy One, the Lord Omnipotent. He was the promised Messiah, the Savior and Redeemer, the Son of David; and at the appointed time he was born of a virgin in Bethlehem of Judea, according to the promises.From Mary, his mother, a mortal woman, he inherited the power of mortality, so that he was subject to all the temptations and ills of the flesh, including death itself. From God, his Father, an Immortal Man, he inherited the power of immortality, so that he had power to live forever, or having voluntarily laid down his life, to take it up again in immortal glory.He came into the world to ransom men from the temporal and spiritual death brought upon them by the fall of Adam. He came to satisfy the demands of divine justice and to bring mercy to the penitent. He came as a Mediator, as an Intercessor, to plead the cause of all those who believe in him.He came to bring immortality to all men as a free gift. He came to make eternal life available on conditions of obedience to the laws and ordinances of his gospel. He came to bring hope, to bring joy, to bring peace, to bring salvation; and his is the only name given under heaven whereby salvation comes.Our Lord—the Lord Jehovah, the Lord Jesus—is our hope and our salvation. He it is that hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. He has redeemed us from death, hell, the devil, and endless torment.After his resurrection he ascended up on high to sit on the right hand of the Father. He has appeared in our day, with his Father, who said: He has appeared many other times to converse with his earthly friends; and in the not distant future he will come again, with ten thousand of his angels, in all the glory of his Father’s kingdom, to usher in his personal reign of righteousness and peace. When he comes he will slay the wicked and judge the world; and every corruptible thing will be destroyed by the glory of his presence.He is our Friend, our Lawgiver, our King, and our Lord. We seek his face and desire to dwell in his presence. We are his people, the sheep of his fold.Our desire is “to be reconciled to God” through his blood, “for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.” As one of our fellow laborers of old said: “We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ,” so that all men “may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.” And so now, in keeping with our established practice and pursuant to the divine obligation laid upon us, I bear personal testimony of the divine Sonship of him who has saved us by his blood. He is truly God’s Almighty Son in whom we shall rejoice both now and forever.In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.He to whom you have just listened, Spencer Woolley Kimball, is God’s prophet to all the world. Not only are the heavens not sealed, as many suppose, but a living prophet is here admonishing and counseling and is available to all who will listen. He is God’s anointed for all mankind to follow.I ask the Lord to bless me as only He can that I might communicate to you the desires of my heart at this time.Next Sunday is Easter. For a brief few hours many in the world, believers and nonbelievers, will have recalled to their minds through pictures, stories, and messages in the media or from church pulpits the final events culminating in the death and resurrection of our Lord.The fragmentary accounts of the Savior’s brief ministry are sufficient to give us at least a small feeling of His great love. His desire is to help us. He will give to each of us as much of His own spirit as we are prepared to accept. His work and glory is to save all mankind. As I read and ponder Christ’s teachings, given to help us understand His purposes, and as I witness the miraculous events occurring today in the spreading of His work, I feel a swelling in my bosom—a testimony of their eternal truth.Shortly before the Savior’s betrayal and the subsequent events that will be celebrated next week, an event now known as the Transfiguration occurred, which I am sure was meant for our spiritual enlightenment as well as for those who were personal witnesses.The New Testament writers tell us the Savior took with Him the three dearest and most enlightened of His apostles and went up a lofty mountain—Luke says simply “a mountain” (see to find a secluded spot where He could kneel in prayer and prepare for the events soon to come.It must have been early evening when the Savior ascended the mountain with those three chosen witnesses—James and John, known as the “sons of thunder,” and Peter, the “man of rock.” Perhaps Jesus felt not only a sense of the heavenly calm which that solitary opportunity for communion with His Father would bring, but even more, a sense that He would be supported in the coming hour by ministrations not of this earth. He was to be illuminated with a light which needed no aid from the sun or the moon or the stars. He went up to prepare for His coming death. He took His three apostles with Him in the belief that they, after having seen His glory—the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father—might be fortified, that their faith might be strengthened to prepare them for the insults and humiliating events which were to follow.We learn from what has been written that the Savior, finding a secluded place, knelt and prayed; and as He prayed to His Father, He was elevated far above the doubt and wickedness of the world which had rejected Him. As He prayed He was transfigured. His countenance shone as the sun, and His garments became white as the snow fields above them. He was enwrapped in an aura of glistening brilliance—His whole presence reflected such a divine radiance that the light of the sun or the white of the snow are the only things to which the evangelists can compare that celestial scene. Two figures appeared by His side. There stood by Him Moses and Elijah. When the prayer was ended, the coming ordeal undoubtedly accepted, then the full glory fell upon Him, from heaven—a testimony of His divine Sonship and power.  [See Luke’s account indicates that the three apostles did not witness the beginning of this marvelous transfiguration. The three apostles, as they would later be at Gethsemane, were heavy with sleep, the account says. But they were suddenly startled into wakefulness. Then they saw and heard. In the darkness of the night the apostles saw an intense light and the glorified form of their Lord. Beside Him, in that same glory of light, were two persons whom they knew or heard to be Moses and Elijah. Undoubtedly they spoke with Jesus of His coming death at Jerusalem.As the vision began to fade, Peter, the account says, spoke the first thoughts that came to his mind, and, apparently anxious to delay the departure of the heavenly visitors, said: “Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee and one for Moses, and one for Elias.” They may have been surprised at the inappropriate proposal made by the eager Peter, who would yet learn the meaning of the night’s events. But even as Peter spoke, a bright cloud of brilliant light overshadowed Jesus and his heavenly visitors, Moses and Elijah, and also the three apostles; and a voice was heard: “This is my beloved Son: hear him.” The three apostles fell prostrate and hid their faces. How long it was before Jesus came to them and touched them is not clear from the account; but when they raised their eyes, it was all over. The bright cloud had vanished. The gleams of light, the shining countenances had passed away; they were alone with Jesus. Now only the light from the stars was on the mountain slopes.After such an experience, the apostles may have hesitated to rise; but Jesus, now appearing as they had seen Him before He knelt in prayer, touched them saying, “Arise, and be not afraid.”  He was their dear friend.The day was probably dawning as they descended the mountain. Jesus instructed them to tell no man until He had risen from the dead. The vision was for them; it was to be pondered over by them in depths of their own hearts. They were not even to tell the other apostles. They kept Christ’s instructions but could not understand the full meaning. They could only ask each other, or wonder in silence, what this resurrection from the dead could mean. But they now knew more fully than ever that their Lord was indeed the Christ, the Son of God.Though difficult for us to understand, Jesus himself must have been strengthened and sustained by Moses and Elijah to prepare Him for the suffering and agony ahead for Him in working out the infinite and eternal atonement of all mankind. An angel from heaven would again in a few days strengthen Him when He would sweat great drops of blood in the Garden of Gethsemane.The three chosen apostles were taught of His coming death and also His resurrection, teachings that would strengthen each of them in the eventful days ahead.Testifying later, John said, “We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father”  and the apostle Peter, speaking of this personal experience, wrote: “For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.“For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.“And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.” Peter, James, and John—they alone beheld the glory and majesty of the transfigured Jesus and undoubtedly received the keys of the kingdom. These three were yet to be taken to a spot in Gethsemane where they would behold his suffering as He took upon Himself the sins of the world that He might redeem us from the Fall and through His resurrection demonstrate to us that He is the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh and show unto us that He is the Redeemer of the world.These same three witnesses who were on the mount—Peter, the senior of Christ’s apostles, and James and John—appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in 1829 and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood and gave to them the keys of the kingdom and apostleship. Christ Himself, followed by Moses, Elias, and Elijah, appeared to Joseph and Oliver in the Kirtland Temple, giving authority and committing other essential keys of this dispensation. The Prophet’s own words of this event record:“In the afternoon, I assisted the other presidents in distributing the Lord’s Supper to the Church, receiving it from the Twelve, whose privilege it was to officiate at the sacred desk this day. After having performed this service to my brethren. I retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, and bowed myself with Oliver Cowdery, in solemn and silent prayer. After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us. …“The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened.“We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. …“I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. …“After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel. …“After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.“After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said: …“Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors.”  The divine keys, power, and authority were committed by heavenly messengers to Joseph Smith in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. Those keys—the same that were delivered to Peter, James, and John on the mountain—authorize us to carry the gospel to all nations and declare the power, glory, and majesty of our Lord Jesus Christ and that the day of His coming is near. The prophet of God, to whom we have listened this morning, holds these keys and authority today. We invite people everywhere to inquire further into this divine message which we have to offer to all mankind.I testify in all sincerity to the truth of these things, in the name of Him whom we honor, worship, and love as our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus the Christ. In His holy name, amen.