Following the resurrection of the Savior, he walked along the way toward Emmaus with two of his disciples, and we are told that “their eyes were holden that they” didn’t recognize Him.  When He heard what they had to say about Him and His life and crucifixion, He realized that they didn’t comprehend what He had tried to teach them, and so He said to them: “O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken.” Then, commencing with Moses and the prophets, He showed them how in all things the prophets had testified of Him; and you know that they did, even to the minutest detail, even to the casting of lots for His clothing at the time of His crucifixion. Then Luke tells us that He opened their understandings that they might understand the scriptures. Now I ask you here today, do you believe all that the prophets have spoken? And if you do, you realize what Isaiah said: that the Lord has declared “the end from the beginning.” It’s all in the holy scriptures, and of all the great events of the history of the world, as far as the prophets have foretold, the greatest is the preparation for the coming of the Savior in the latter days, when He will come in power and great glory, with all the holy angels, as King of kings and Lord of lords.Obviously there has to be a preparation for that coming.I would like to preface what I am going to say here today with the words of the song written by William Cowper. It goes like this: “God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform.” I would like to refer today to a few of the wonders that the Lord has performed and is performing in order to prepare for that glorious coming of His Only Begotten Son as the prophets have foretold. I may repeat some of the things that have been said in this conference.I first refer to the statement of Malachi when the Lord, speaking through the prophet Malachi, said that He would send His messenger to prepare the way for His coming, and that He would come swiftly to His temple; and who could abide the day of His coming, because He would be as refiner’s fire and fullers’ soap. (See  Now obviously that had no reference to His first coming, when He was born as a humble babe in Bethlehem, for He didn’t come to His temple swiftly, and He didn’t come cleansing or purifying. But we are told that when He comes in the latter days the wicked will cry out to the rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us … from the wrath of the Lamb.” Obviously, when the Lord sends a messenger to prepare the way before Him, that messenger can be none other than a prophet. When He came in the meridian of time, the Lord sent John the Baptist, and Jesus bore witness that there was no greater prophet in Israel than John the Baptist.We have heard here today from Brother Derrick about the bringing forth of the boy Joseph Smith as a prophet of the Lord, visited by the Father and the Son back in 1820. If we could realize how this world has changed in the past 200 years because of the coming of the Father and the Son to usher in this dispensation as compared with the centuries preceding—why didn’t it happen 500 years ago or a thousand years ago?But we are living in the day of preparation, and the Lord has sent his messenger to prepare the way, and He gave unto him the keys to organize His Church and kingdom and to establish the holy priesthood and the power of the apostleship, such as existed in the church in the primitive days.Then there are the words of Paul. He said that the Lord has revealed the mystery of His will, “That in the dispensation of the fulness of times [] he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth.”  Isn’t that something to think about, when you hear that the Lord will reveal the mystery of His will? And that the mystery of His will has been revealed to His modern prophets of this day?And we have truths that no other church in this world knows anything about—we are the only church in the world that has a program to unite all that is in the kingdom of heaven with the kingdom of God here on this earth, looking to the final winding-up scenes when all the kingdoms of this world and the world to come will be under the supervision of our great King, the Savior of the world. Well, they are just some of the little things that need to be done. Now there are many other prophecies foretelling His second coming.When Moroni visited the Prophet Joseph three times during the night, when he was only eighteen years old and had no church organization, Moroni quoted some of the prophecies that were yet to be fulfilled in the preparation; and one was from the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, where the Lord said that He would “set his hand again the second time to gather scattered Israel, and that He would bring in the dispersed of Judah, and He would “set up an ensign for the nations.”  That He has done through the gathering of the Latter-day Saints to these valleys of the mountains as a witness that He has gathered scattered Israel. And now Judah is being gathered back to her native land after centuries—two thousand years of wandering and persecution—and now Israel has a nation of her own. All of this is but fulfillment of the prophecies that were to precede the coming of the Savior in the latter days.Then Isaiah made another statement regarding the latter days. (It seems to me that he almost lived more in our day than the time when he was here upon the earth, because he saw so much of what would transpire.) He saw in the last days (and he names the ) that the mountain of the Lord’s house would be established in the top of the mountains (and we are here) and that all nations would flow unto it. “And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; that he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” Thousands can testify how they have been gathered from foreign lands to these valleys of the mountains where this beautiful temple is. Just imagine the Saints starting to build an edifice like that when they had nothing but their hands with which to build it, and were a thousand miles from transportation. One of the first things that President Brigham Young did when they entered into this valley, a wilderness, was to put his cane on the spot where this temple was to be built. Well, Isaiah saw all of that thousands of years ago, and that is another of the preparatory things that the prophets have foreseen that were to precede His second coming.Then we come back to the prophet Malachi again, and he said: “I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord []:“And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.”  President Kimball spoke of that in his opening address.I doubt if we have any conception of what that really meant, when Elijah came. There are unseen powers that operate in this world on the hearts and minds of men that are as real as the sunshine is to the plants and the trees to help them grow, and the seeds to sprout, and so forth. Elijah did come; on the third day of April 1836 he appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple and brought back the keys of the turning of the hearts of the fathers who have passed away to their children here upon this earth, and the hearts of the children here to their fathers, and that in itself is one of the great miracles of all ages.If you could just realize what has happened as a result of Elijah’s coming! At that time there were no genealogical societies in the world, and now they are all over the world; and not only that but I had a newspaper that came to me from Indianapolis the other day and the whole front page of the paper was about the gathering of genealogy. It told about our Genealogical Department out here, and I checked with Brother Burton, and we have over 600 employees in that department, 80 men that are microfilming the records all over this land and in Europe.Then we have these great vaults out here in these granite mountains where these films are preserved. There is nothing like it in the world. And if you stop to figure how many people it took to prepare the 4 million volumes of genealogy that we have in our library here, then you will realize that the Spirit is moving on them all over the world.When I was down in the South as president of the mission, one of our new converts went into the library hunting genealogy, and he found one of their family names prepared by a judge and his wife over in Texas, and the preface read like this:“This book has been prepared at great expense and time and money on the part of my wife and myself. Why we have done it we do not know, but we trust in the providences of the Lord that it will someday serve a useful purpose.”I could tell you more stories like that to show you how the Spirit is moving upon the people of this world to gather their genealogy preparatory to the work that we can do in our temples.Then just think of the thousands of people that are working in our temples day by day. All of that is a part of this great and marvelous work that Elijah was to come and bring.I was over in Israel a few years ago and one day we went into three of the synagogues there. In one, tied up on the side of the wall, was an armchair. I knew what it was there for, but I wanted the rabbi to tell me! I said, “What’s that chair there for?”He said, “So if Elijah comes along we can lower it and let him occupy it.”How little do they realize that Elijah has been here and if they could only comprehend what has happened in this world, that he has touched the hearts of men and women all over this world as a result of his coming—well, that was one of the great things that was to transpire.God bless you. I believe the words of the prophets, and I know that this Church is the preparation that all of the holy prophets have decreed to prepare for the coming of our Savior; and may He hasten that day, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.“But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.“For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:“For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was.“But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed.” I marvel as I study the scriptures how often the Lord has found it necessary to remind us of the blessings He has given to us, and how we should use those great gifts.As the Lord completed His creation of the earth and inspected that which He had accomplished, He saw that it was good. So God created male and female and blessed them. His first instructions to His newly created children were to be fruitful and multiply, replenish and subdue. There is also a consistency of this message in the Book of Mormon. The righteous who labor will enjoy the abundance and plenty of the earth. Turn from righteous labor, and only suffer scarcity, pain, and sorrow.The word of the Lord in modern scriptures again commands, “Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer.” It is evident from the scriptures that the Lord wants us to use the raw materials He has so abundantly blessed us with.The Savior in His earthly ministry taught us this principle by example, exhortation, and parable. The message was especially emphasized in the parable of the talents. Here the Savior tells us of a man who was traveling into a far-off country and called his servants together to deliver unto them his goods. To one he gave five talents, another two, and another one; to each man according to his several abilities. Then he left on his journey.Now they who had received the five and the two talents labored diligently to double that which they had received. But he who had received the one went and digged in the earth and hid his lord’s money. After some time the lord returned. To those who had gained the five and the two, the lord said, “Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.” Now he who had received the one went and digged in the earth and brought his talent forth, and he tried to alibi for not multiplying that which the lord had given him.The lord didn’t greet him with “Well done.” His greeting was, “Thou wicked and slothful servant.”  And then the lord said, “Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.“For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.”  As a kind and loving father, the Lord has taught His children the joy and satisfaction and the rewards associated with accomplishment.As those who have received the light of the gospel, we should be especially motivated to be the best in our performance. Could I challenge you in five areas to make a special effort to magnify the opportunities with which the Lord has blessed you?First, as husbands and wives: Our knowledge of this eternal relationship should cause us to be  determined to make a success of this important responsibility in our earthly existence.President Kimball has said, “Marriage is perhaps the most vital of all decisions and has the most far-reaching effects for it has to do not only with immediate happiness, but eternal joys as well. It affects not only the two people involved, but also their families and particularly their children and their children’s children down through the many generations.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Deseret Book Co., 1976, p. 10.)There is a devilish and all-too-popular plan today which would strike at the very roots of this essential and basic organization. Satan in his clever plan to destroy mankind has infiltrated the sacred ground of our homes. He is attempting to glamorize infidelity, make divorce commonplace, and popularize relationships outside of the marriage covenant. History gives abundant evidence that such a course will destroy mankind. Surely with our knowledge concerning the eternal nature of this sacred union between husband and wife, we should try with all diligence to make our marriages worthy of a celestial blessing.The Prophet Joseph Smith had a most remarkable way of handling a problem between himself and his wife. David Whitmer tells of an incident in the lives of Joseph and Emma Smith as follows:“One morning when [Joseph Smith] was getting ready to continue the translation, something went wrong about the house and he was put out about it. Something that Emma, his wife, had done. Oliver and I went upstairs and Joseph came up soon after to continue the translation but he could not do anything. He could not translate a single syllable. He went downstairs, out into the orchard, and made supplication to the Lord; [he] was gone about an hour—came back to the house, and asked Emma’s forgiveness and then came upstairs where we were and then the translation went on all right.” (B. H. Roberts,  1:131.)I wonder how long problems would exist between husband and wife if we allowed the Lord to cool our tempers and to bring reason back into our minds, if we would kneel before him and ask for strength to have forgiveness.I challenge you today to make something special of your marriage. Follow the counsel of the scriptures and have your marriage built on a foundation of faith in Christ and have it rooted and grounded in love. Second, the greatest of all blessings of an eternal union is the right to have an eternal family. If the Lord wills, righteous marriages should bring forth children. And they should have the privilege to come to the earth through a highly favored lineage.One of the choice privileges of a General Authority is perhaps thirty or forty times a year to visit the stakes of the Church and to be guests in the homes of stake presidents. I am certain we have seen firsthand some of the greatest homes there are in all the world.I remember being assigned to a conference some time ago in a stake where the president was a dentist. It was evident from his home and furnishings he had a successful practice. I guess he could have given his children almost anything they could have wanted. However, he loved them enough to teach them responsibility. He moved from the city out into a rural area, where he was teaching his family the value of work.How I enjoyed sitting with the children and having them describe the projects they had been assigned the responsibility for. With pride they would tell me how many eggs per day the chickens were producing, or how high the corn was, or how the cattle were in the field. This family had as their motto the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, 119th verse: “Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God.” I challenge you to make your home a house of God.Third—after love, understanding, and honesty in marriage—next in order of importance I believe is the financial stability of the family unit. In the division of responsibilities, the Lord has designated this area as the provider of the family to the husband and father. A family should grow up with the comforting assurance that so long as Dad possesses a sound mind and a strong body, he will continue to magnify his talents and develop his career. He will do his best in his preparation and make his performance such that he can provide comfortably for his family unit.Fathers, be honest in your business dealings. Be loyal to your employers. Determine to be the best in your chosen field of endeavor. Each day make a  effort to be more productive than you were the day before. I challenge you to be leaders in your chosen professions and occupations.Fourth, we have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have willingly placed our hand on the plow. We have accepted the obligation of building the kingdom of God here on earth. The scriptures tell us, “But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.”  Surely only the standard of excellence is the goal we should be attempting to achieve in the assignment we have been given in Church service. I challenge you to enthusiastically accept Church calls and with diligence make every effort to achieve the highest level of performance.Finally, our children deserve the right to grow up in a clean and wholesome environment. We have an obligation and a responsibility to safeguard this privilege for them.I received a most interesting letter from a mother a few months ago reporting to me her service hours to her community as a Bicentennial commitment. A portion of her letter read as follows: “I went to a P.T.A. meeting at the beginning of the school year and learned that my sixth-grade daughter was assigned to read a certain book in school. I felt impressed that I should read it to see if it was desirable for children. As I read it, I found it highly undesirable for sixth-graders. It contained profanity, violence, disrespect for adults, especially parents, and was generally gloomy and depressing, with nothing of love and beauty and goodness. I discussed the book with the principal of the school and told him of my concerns. He suggested that I read the whole series of books before condemning them, and if I still felt the same way I could write my objections in a letter and give them to him, giving specific examples of objectionable materials.“I complied with his suggestion and continued to read the other books and found them also unfit for our children. I felt compelled to write my letter even before I had finished the last in the series.“I was gratified to receive a call later from the assistant superintendent of this school district, asking me to come to his office. He told me it was not their policy to have books in their basic reading curriculum with profanity in them and that they would immediately remove those books from their school district. He said they were highly embarrassed that someone should have to point out to them the objectionable nature of the books, and that they would see that those persons responsible for reviewing the books in the future did a more thorough job.”We have been blessed with the light of the gospel to lead us and to guide and direct our lives. Through our understanding and study of the scriptures, we have a knowledge of the laws of the Lord by which we should govern our earthly conduct. With this great blessing comes an obligation to be a part of the communities in which we live. Our influence should be felt to safeguard the moral standards in the villages, in the towns, and in the cities where our homes are located in all parts of the world. I challenge you to become involved in lifting the moral standards of the communities where your homes are.May the light of the gospel help us to see the great potential the Lord has blessed us with. There is power in righteous living. May we again commit ourselves to be doers of the word—quality builders in our Father in heaven’s kingdom. May our lives be filled with the joy of accomplishment. May our knowledge of the gospel help us to be the best of whatever the Lord has called us to be, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.