In Proverbs we read of a woman who is the embodiment of the ideal wife, mother, provident homemaker, and compassionate woman. The essence of my message is contained in one of the passages which describes her:“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.” A fundamental doctrine of the gospel, a basic value in Welfare Services, and a response that has become traditional for both Welfare Services and Relief Society is the principle of The women of the Church are no strangers to service; for Relief Society was born amid hardship, persecution and sacrifice in a time that called forth the greatest compassion, succor, and service women could give.From those days in Nauvoo to the present, the records are filled with the activities of women as they have brought relief to the distressed, aid to the poor and needy, ministrations to the sick, and comfort to those that mourn.Service of Latter-day Saint women continues to be in demand now as never before, both in the welfare program of our rapidly growing Church and in a society filled with problems which increasingly compound. The welfare work of the Church is based upon voluntary service, a great amount of which must be performed by women.Women’s first responsibility for service is to their families, for this is the fundamental priority established by the Lord. It must he their first consideration, and that of all those who call them to positions or seek their assistance in any endeavor; for the building of strong families is fundamental to a strong society.Service in the Church most often should be a woman’s next priority, with service in the community being a third consideration.Ranking first in the realm of Church service is the official calling, which is the formal request made by one having the proper priesthood authority after prayerfully taking into account family situations and other personal circumstances. The call is to a particular position, such as an officer, teacher, visiting teacher, or missionary. It would be expected that this service would continue for some time.Besides the official calling there is an official assignment, which covers a whole gamut of service opportunities in the Church.Before giving an official assignment, a priesthood or Relief Society leader should take into consideration family responsibilities and Church callings. An official request might be made by a ward Relief Society president to an individual woman for compassionate service to meet a specific need of another person.I recently heard of a ward in which there were seventy sisters over seventy years of age. Their wise Relief Society president felt that even those who were homebound could serve, and so she gave each of the seventy sisters either a visiting teaching assignment or a compassionate service assignment. Even a sister stricken with a terminal disease was assigned to write a monthly letter to each of three sisters who were homebound. Some sisters were assigned to call other sisters each day to make sure they were all right.One sister continued to serve as a visiting teacher supervisor when she was ill and homebound. Her Relief Society president reported that, with much effort, this sister put on one of her prettiest dresses before doing the telephoning each month, feeling that this act gave her service importance and dignity as she filled this assignment for the Lord.Within the official assignment category would be service on a Deseret Industries committee, or as a Home Craft Committee chairman, or service in a welfare canning project. Included would also be service to LDS Social Services, where a woman might be assigned to aid a case worker, provide a foster home, or assist with the Indian Student Placement Program.A woman may consider that she has been given an official assignment in Relief Society when she is asked to serve as chairman of the Relief Society Homemaking Day luncheon, to sew a welfare clothing item, or to assist at the time of illness or death. These assignments are for specific tasks, but they do not appoint one to a continuing position in the Church. Official assignments would usually be for a shorter duration than a calling, and might be a one-time task or duty.Another area of service within the general context of Church service is that of individual compassionate service on a spontaneous, personal basis. It is the kind of watchful care that each woman is expected to give to a neighbor in need.In the Welfare Meeting of 1975 and in the Welfare Services Handbook, we suggested that wards keep a current resource file indicating the talents and the abilities of the sisters as well as their needs and wants. Those records should include the areas of expertise and availability of sisters for service. (Welfare Services Meeting, April 5, 1975, p. 13).A third broad category of service for those who have the time, ability, and energy beyond that needed for family and Church responsibilities is voluntary community service. Voluntary community service should be freely given within an area of a particular interest or expertise, when circumstances permit.Within this classification lie limitless possibilities of service for women in worthy community causes, civic betterment efforts or in innumerable ways as concerned citizens.The Prophet Joseph Smith seemed particularly insightful, not only concerning his day and times, but ours as well, when he admonished women in the founding period of the Relief Society “to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community.” (Minutes of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, p. 7.)There is a reservoir of talented women who are not overburdened with family obligations or with Church callings who can give of their time to rewarding voluntary service—service that can be the means of improving society, or lifting the level of community morality—and at the same time underscore the welfare principle of service. This is their opportunity to broaden their scope of service—not only to their “own,” but to their non-Church neighbors as well.Through the scriptures we are admonished by the Lord to be “anxiously engaged in a good cause.”  Almost every woman can find appropriate ways of serving in good causes. A mother with a family of school-age children may feel the best way to serve her community is by becoming involved in the improvement of the schools her children attend or by making her family aware of good causes in the community and appropriate ways in which they can become involved, such as in the president’s National Family Week.Only when a woman understands the importance and the enrichment of service and evaluates her opportunities—neither making excuses to avoid service nor overextending herself unwisely—can she enjoy the promised blessings of service as she follows the example of the “virtuous woman,” as “she stretcheth out her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.”It is my prayer that women may, with discernment, minister to the poor and needy—even to the poor in spirit—and serve them well, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.I have been asked to speak on the father’s duty to foster the welfare of his family. After thinking many hours on this assignment, I am persuaded to make a few remarks in an attempt to teach a principle that, if understood and practiced, will make us all more effective in this God-given responsibility.We have great concern about the growing number of homes in the Church where the influence of a father is hardly felt. In more and more families the mother and children are left to carry out the father’s duties as well as their own. Divorce, pursuit of wealth, and indifference to sacred things are only three of many reasons why fathers neglect the welfare of their families. In this life a father is never released from his responsibility. We call bishops, and they serve for a time and are released. Stake presidents likewise are called, serve, and are released. But a father’s calling is an eternal calling if he lives worthily.In 1 Timothy we read some rather sobering words from the Lord:“But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.” The positive definition of the word  is “happiness, prosperity, and well-being.” The father’s duty is to foster the happiness, prosperity, and well-being of each family member. He is to “provide … for his own.” He does this when he provides spiritual and temporal leadership to family members. He provides for the welfare of each family member as he sees their needs and provides a way to help each one satisfy those needs. Of course, when there is no father in the home, the head of the household must assume these duties.We can learn from Brigham Young’s example. An excerpt from a letter to his son Joseph illustrates the kind of spiritual leadership a father should give.“Joseph,“All the gold in California could not buy my good feelings to you and thankfulness to the Lord. … Your mother wishes me to write a few words for her. Her health is about as usual, not very well but so she works all day and then till midnight frequently. We feel proud before the Lord when we think what you are doing in the great cause and kingdom of our God. Be faithful my son. You went out as a child. We trust you will return a flaming elder of salvation. Keep yourself pure before the Lord. Your father before you has done it, and my constant prayer is that you may. With all my heart I believe you will. May God bless you forever and ever.“Oh, how glad we will be to see you,“Brigham Young”(Dean Jessee,  p. 16.)Another excerpt, from one of President Young’s letters to a son who attended the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, illustrates the kind of temporal leadership a father should provide:“My dear son,“Be prudent in all things, adopt the plan of keeping a strict account of all your expenses: by this you will not only understand what becomes of your money, but it will also induce business habits and methods and correctness in financial dealings in … life. You will find that much of the happiness of this life consists in having something worthy to do and in doing it well. It has been wisely said that ‘that which is worth doing is worth doing well.’ If a man is to drive the plow, let him do it well; if only to cut bolts, make good ones; if to blow the bellows, keep the iron hot. It is our attention to our daily duties that makes us men. Aspire to acquire knowledge that you may be able to do more good and also to progress in your sphere of life; but remember that you will win only by trust in the Lord, by present contentment and by doing faithfully that which you have in hand. … We all, father, mother, brothers, sisters, friends, and brethren in the office, all join in love to you, and in prayers for your welfare.“Your affectionate father,“Brigham Young”(Jessee,  pp. 305–6.)In the home, the father has a primary obligation to stay close to family members and administer to their needs. Not only through his observations but also in personal interviews the father evaluates his family’s needs. I know several fathers who have a personal interview with each of their children on a weekly basis.A time when a father really listens can be a memorable and not soon forgotten experience for both. This would be a time when the father would not monopolize the conversation but rather would lead out with a simple, well-chosen question or two and then sit back and listen. There is nothing that can take the place of a listening father. His ears and heart must both be in tune. There is no substitute.Have you ever thought what might have happened if the Prophet Joseph Smith had not had a listening father? Picture this situation if you will:The Smith family was a farming family. They lived in New England, where there is a short growing season. They had no mechanical farming equipment such as we now enjoy, and Father Smith needed all the help he could get from his sons. Undoubtedly they started work early in the morning and stayed in the fields until late in the evening.It was in this setting one morning that the boy Joseph came to his father to tell him of a most unusual experience he had had during the night and early morning: a series of visions had come before him.Instead of Father Smith telling his son to hurry on to work—to discuss the matter with him later because there was much to do—he stopped and he listened and then said to his son, “It is of God,” and told him to go and do as commanded by the messenger. What a wonderful example of a listening father! What a memorable experience for both!Ofttimes as parents we may feel we have been listening when, in fact, our children may feel we haven’t. Unless our children have no doubt that they have had our attention, I suggest that we haven’t done all that is required.We plead for more and better prepared listening fathers. Remember, fathers, you are always teaching—for good or for ill. Your family is learning your ways and beliefs. As President Benson has said, “Your children may or may not choose to follow you—but the example you give is the greatest light you will hold before your children. You are accountable for that light.”As we think of the role of an effective father, remember this: without experiencing a gospel principle in action, it is extremely difficult for family members to believe in that principle.For instance, how can a child grow to maturity with the ability to express love to others if she hasn’t been loved herself?How would we expect a child to trust others if he has not been trusted?How could we hope that any child could understand the eternal principle of work and other aspects of the welfare program if these principles have not been taught by example in his own home?How can we expect a child to grow to maturity understanding honesty if honesty has not been the experience of the home?We could apply this to any gospel principle. There is no method as dynamic and powerful in a learning experience as personal involvement and example.Brethren, our ability to give spiritual and temporal leadership to our families depends on the pattern of our lives. We will be effective as fathers only as our lives reflect what we wish to teach. For those who feel it’s too late to start a course in self-improvement, may I suggest, in the words of Hugh B. Brown:“Each one of us must live with himself through the eternity and each one is now working on the kind of man he will have this eternal association with—I say that now is the time to act; it is neither too early nor too late.” ( Feb. 1964, 126:51.)Brethren, it is not too early or too late to teach your family the principles and the how-to’s of financial and resource management, physical health, emotional resiliency, career planning, literacy and educational involvement, and home production and storage.It is neither too early nor too late to listen more carefully, to spend time and to be an example, to otherwise stand at the head of your posterity as a righteous patriarch.May each father this day resolve to fill that high destiny spoken of by Peter, for indeed we must be a “chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.