Thank God for the youth of the Church! I don’t know where we could have a better object lesson than this delightful group behind me.President Richards always hits a sensitive note. I have thought through that parable of the talents many times and have read it perhaps a little differently than you have. The Lord said when we do what we are supposed to do, “Well done, … good and faithful servant.”  In my case, He might well say, “Well, Dunn!”On behalf of the Presidency of the First Quorum of the Seventy, we greet these three new brethren to our quorum.As I travel around the Church and see many of the challenges and as I have listened very carefully in this conference and in other meetings, I appreciate more fully the concern of our president to reach out to those who are lost or inactive. He made a very interesting point in an earlier service, a very interesting observation, and I would like to quote it. He said, “Prevention is far better than redemption.” Did you get the difference?  is far  than  Would you young adults, young married couples, young people everywhere, please take note?While my daughters were growing up, during the many trips we took in our car, the most often-asked question was, “When will we get there, Dad?” And “How long will it take?” I couldn’t help but think that those questions are much like some that we adults ask. We think we will be happy when we arrive at a certain destination, our schooling is finished, we get a better job, we arrive at a certain income, the baby is born, our bills are paid, we recover from our illness, we own a new car, some disagreeable task is finished, we retire, or we are free from all responsibility.My father used to teach us that life is a journey, not a camp, and he indicated that too many people are camping. I’d like to challenge all of us, particularly the young people and young couples that are married, to see life as a whole and to enjoy the marvelous journey.I remember a grandmother who had been widowed early in her life and was moving out of her home. Her granddaughter, about to be married herself, was carefully helping her pack the boxes of dishes and the faded towels. “See that sewing machine over there in the corner?” the grandmother asked. “Your grandfather always left his hat there when he came home in the evening. I used to scold him all the time about it. ‘Just put your hat on the hook,’ I’d say. ‘Why does your hat always have to be on the sewing machine messing everything up?’ Then one day he got pneumonia and died, leaving four little children and me to miss him for a lifetime. How many times through the years I’ve thought, What I’d give to see that hat on the sewing machine, placed there by his own hand!”Like the grandmother in this story, we too often let trifles cloud our vision. We get caught up in nonessentials or in a multitude of meetings, both in and out of the Church, that have no particular meaning or purpose. We sometimes nag the people we love the best over little inattentions, small faults, mere nothings in the whole scheme of things. Instead of treasuring the all-too-rare moments we share with our dear ones, we pick at faults, imagined or otherwise. How many of us say to our wives, our husbands, our children: “Why can’t you do this?” “Why don’t you do that?” Or “Someday when I have the time …”Our last daughter left for college this past month, and the eighteen years of daily living with her were suddenly over. Where had they gone? What minute, what hour, what day or night had swallowed up all those joyous, giggling, growing-up years? The first night she was away, I slipped into her bedroom, looked at her record player, and thought of all those times I had mechanically said, “Would you turn down the music!” And I thought, too, how often in the days ahead we’d be longing to hear the music. Thank God she and her parents have many wonderful memories to savor in the years ahead.Our daughter Janet lies in a hospital bed at this very moment, and she and we know what great moments we have to share. And you know, Janet, our great faith and our feeling.Why do those sudden moments of clarity, when we realize how precious our loved ones are, come so rarely? How do we let ourselves get caught up in faultfinding, digging, or scolding at those who are nearest our hearts? Is it ever worth it? As C. S. Lewis once advised, “Take care. It is so easy to break eggs without making omelettes.” (Cited in Richard L. Evans,  Salt Lake City: Publisher’s Press, 1971, p. 169.)Maybe each of us needs to stop amidst our busy, dashing, breathless lives—even amidst our many meetings. It recalls to mind an experience—perhaps you know it—of a little inquisitive boy who came to church with his father, and as they walked into the foyer, the boy noticed the usual trophy case over which were placed several large plaques. Curiosity got to the little boy. He pulled on his dad’s coattail and said, “Dad, what’s that one?”The father moved a little closer and read the inscription, patted his boy on the head, and said, “Son, that’s a plaque honoring those who died in the service.”To which the little boy said, “Morning or evening?”I appreciate that the Lord has instructed us that there are important meetings, but then there are other  which are not well planned or properly structured. Yes, even amidst our meetings and our commitments we need to really  to see the way his eyes wrinkle when he laughs, see the tilt of her head as the light catches her hair, remember his dash of humor. Maybe when things get in the saddle and ride us, we need to step back for a moment of clarity. We need to remember why we are doing all of this—remember how much we love those we love.A young mother was running late to a very important meeting one time. As she dashed from her bedroom, her little three-year-old stopped her and said, “Mommy. Mom.”To which the mother replied, “Can’t you see I’m busy?”“Mom, I need to tell you something.”“Not now,” said the mother with an impatient wave of her hand.“Mom,” began the little girl again.“Oh, what is it?” said the mother.“I just wanted to tell you I love you!”Well, life is fleeting at best. We turn around and we’re young, turn around again and we’re old. Minutes rush past. We can’t stop them in all their rush. We’re eighteen; we’re twenty-eight; we’re forty-eight; we’re gray. Is there ever enough time to nag, scold, dig, or complain at the people we love most? We fool ourselves if we think there is. There’s only time to stop, as one has put it, to smell the flowers.Do you remember Julia Ward Howe who told a senator on one occasion, “I am in need of help for a very special person”?“Julia, I am so busy”, he said, “I can no longer concern myself with individuals.”She replied, “That’s remarkable. Even God hasn’t reached that stage yet.” (See  p. 165.)Concern yourself first with individuals, with relationships, with loved ones. What else really matters? Don’t imagine yourself, regardless of who you are, busier than the Lord, who puts souls first above everything else.The other night I was flying home from a distant conference. I had been away only three days, but as the flood lights of the airport loomed up, I welled up with anticipation and excitement. I felt as though I could have been a great hero returning from space—and what caused this excitement? I was going back to my family. Does it have to take flights away from home, a child leaving for college, or the death of a husband who will never again leave his hat in an awkward place to remind us how sweet are the moments with our loved ones and friends? How brief they are in the run of time? Does it take these things to stop us in our picking at trifling faults to realize the beauty of every minute together?“When will we be there?” “How long will it take?” “How much longer, Dad, will it take?” are questions often asked by impatient children. “When will I arrive?”—a question asked by adults as they face the pressures of life. For all of us, let it not take a lifetime before we realize that we have been there all along, that life does not offer anything sweeter than the love of dear ones and the sharing of time together.You remember what President Kimball said: “Prevention is far better than redemption.” God grant us the wisdom to know that life is a great journey, and may we have the sense to enjoy it. I bear witness to these truths in the holy name of Jesus Christ. Amen.I am very happy to greet you, my brothers and sisters, and for the few moments that I stand before you today, I have selected as a text for my talk the words of the apostle Paul as recorded in the second chapter of First Corinthians, where Paul said that the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and the things of man are understood by the spirit of man. (See “But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him.”  I take it that that is the reason we have nearly a thousand churches here in this great land of ours, because men with their own wisdom have not been able to understand the things of God as they are given by our Father’s holy prophets because, as Paul said, they are foolishness unto them.I think of the words of the prophet Isaiah when he said:“Because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.“Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left.” I am sure that he had in mind these thousand churches that are following the precepts of men, and that is what Isaiah had in mind when he said:“Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:“Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid.” Now I would like to point out a few of the differences between the ways of men and their teachings and the truth as the Lord has revealed it through his holy prophets. First, I refer to the way they believe in the Trinity. When the Prophet Joseph saw his vision, the whole Christian world believed in a God without body, parts, or passions. That means he had no eyes; he couldn’t see. He had no ears; he couldn’t hear. He had no mouth; he couldn’t speak. Moses knew that this condition would prevail, for when he went to lead the children of Israel into the Promised Land, he told them that they would not remain there long, but that they would be scattered among the nations, and that they would worship gods made by the hands of man (that’s man’s doing) that could neither see, nor hear, nor taste, nor smell. (See  That’s exactly the kind of a god the whole Christian world was worshipping at the time Joseph Smith had his vision. But Moses didn’t leave it at that. He said in the latter days (and we live in the latter days) that if they would seek after God they would surely find him. (See  Joseph Smith sought after him and found him.At one time the Prophet Joseph visited the President of the United States, and the President asked him the difference between his church and other churches, and the Prophet said, “We have the Holy Ghost.” And when one has the Holy Ghost, he is laboring under the divine direction of God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ. He is not dependent upon the ways of man, and as Paul pointed out, the ways of God are foolishness unto men because they can’t comprehend them.Compare, now, that idea of God with the experience of the Prophet Joseph. As a young man, he went into the woods to pray in answer to the invitation of the apostle James, “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.”  And in answer to his prayer, a light descended from heaven, brighter than the noonday sun, and in the midst of that light were two glorious personages: the Father and the Son. The Father said to Joseph: “This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!” And then the Savior of the world, whose right it is to pass judgment upon the right and wrong of all individuals and groups, asked Joseph what he wanted to know, and he asked which of all the churches he should join. The Savior answered that he should join none of them, for they all taught for doctrine the precepts of men. And that is the reason for the thousand churches in the United States today—it is because they follow the precepts of men rather than the revelations.Now I would like to discuss a few of the differences in our concepts. They have changed many of the ordinances. For instance, they no longer baptize as Jesus was baptized when he went to John to be baptized of him. They went down into the waters of the Jordan, and John baptized him, and they came up out of the water. The apostle Paul said there is “one Lord, one faith, one baptism.”  And if that is true, you’d think that everybody would want to follow the example of the Savior himself when he was baptized by immersion in the River Jordan.Today little children are sprinkled as infants by their ministers. That isn’t an act of the child himself, it is an act of his parents. John, who was banished upon the Isle of Patmos, saw the great day when the dead, both small and great, would stand before God and would be judged according to the things that were written in the books, according to their works. (See  Children couldn’t be given credit for having been baptized of their own volition—it was the act of their parents, to take them to be sprinkled.When the people brought their children to Jesus and the apostles tried to prevent them from approaching Him, He rebuked them and said, “Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.”  And then he took those little children into his arms and blessed them; and that is the pattern for his church when we understand the things of God instead of the things of man. Man’s idea is to have them sprinkled with a little water, which isn’t a baptism.When Jesus sent the apostles into all the world, following his resurrection, he told them to teach the gospel to every nation, and “he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.”  The children when they are baptized as little infants do not believe. They can’t understand. The Lord understood that condition, too. That is why he set the example by taking the little children into his arms.In the Book of Mormon we read the words of the prophet Mormon to his son Moroni, and I would like to read you just a few words. He said:“I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.“And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the atonement of him and the power of redemption.” I think the thought in sprinkling little children (infant baptisms) was to wash away the sin of Adam and Eve, but the apostle Paul tells us, “For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”  If that were not true, how would he have atoned for the sins of Adam unless he wiped away the original sin committed by Adam and Eve? And so they have changed the laws and the ordinances.Now they believe today (man’s interpretation) that we no more need prophets and apostles, that all those things have been done away, and prophecies, too. But Amos said, “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.” There has never been a time when the Lord has had a people on this earth that there wasn’t a prophet at their head to whom He could communicate His mind and will for the direction of His people.Then the apostle Paul told us that the Lord had placed in His church apostles and prophets, pastors and teachers, and evangelists for the work of the ministry (that is the great missionary program), for the edifying of the body of Christ (that’s the teaching in our auxiliaries and home teaching and priesthood teaching and so forth), for the perfecting of the saints (that comes through the service that they render), “till we all come in the unity of the faith.” (See We haven’t come to a unity of the faith, and if they do away with the instruments that the Lord placed there to bring us to a unity of the faith, how can we ever hope to arrive at that unity? Then he goes on to say that they “henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, … and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive.” And that’s what we have when we follow the philosophies of men rather than the leadership of his holy prophets.We listen to preachers on the radio and television today saying, “Come unto Jesus and recognize him, and confess him as your only Savior, and you’ll be saved.” How little do they realize that that is only a step in the right direction. That’s why Jesus said:“Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.“Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?“And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” In other words, they had departed from the foundation that he placed in his church and the responsibilities that would follow membership in the Church. If all we have to do is to confess our belief in the Savior, what would you do with the Savior’s parable of the talents? You remember: to one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one. Then after a time he came and held an accounting with those servants, and the one who had received five talents had won another five; the one who had received two had won another two; and unto them he said: “Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.” The one who had received the one talent went and buried it in the earth. He said:“I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:“And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.” And what did the Master say?“Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.“For unto every one that hath shall be given, … but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.“And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” That doesn’t sound like all we have to do is to confess. And you remember that the apostle James said that the devils know that He is the Savior, but they sinned. (See  And he said that “faith without works is dead.” You remember when John saw the final winding-up scenes, when we should have a new heaven and a new earth, and when the dead, small and great, should stand before God. And the books were to be opened, and every man judged according to the things that were written in the books,  and not according to just their faith. (See  And so works become necessary for membership in the Church.Now there are many other differences, but there isn’t time to discuss them. But I would like to mention just one more. You remember how the whole world believed that the thief upon the cross went to heaven with the Savior because He said: “To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.”  Now the men of this world, understanding things according to man’s wisdom, thought he went to heaven. But according to divine truth, he went only to paradise where the Savior arranged for the gospel to be preached to him to prepare him so that he would be worthy to stand with the sanctified and the redeemed of his people.Now there are many other differences, as we know, and as we study, so that we understand what Paul meant when he said that the things of God are understood by the Spirit of God, and the things of man are understood by the spirit of man, and “the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him.”  May the Lord help us all to understand his truths and to follow the leadership of our living prophet, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.