That the inhabitants of the earth are today floundering in confusion is no secret. That chaos threatens society is common knowledge. If the prevailing course of men and nations is not changed, it will culminate in a cataclysmic disaster. God has so predicted, and history bears witness.For six thousand years civilizations have risen, flourished, declined, and passed away pursuant to the same cycle of events.Civilizations rise as their people comply with the laws upon which prosperity, success, and happiness depend. These laws God revealed in the beginning and, through His prophets, He has repeated them in every dispensation since.Civilizations have flourished as long as these laws are obeyed. Civilizations decline to the extent such laws are disobeyed. Civilizations pass away when these laws are completely disregarded.Beginning in the days of Adam, and in every gospel dispensation since, the Lord has warned the inhabitants of the earth that their continued violation of the laws of righteousness, which He has revealed, would bring on their destruction.All history, sacred and profane, testifies to the accuracy of this prediction.In the beginning the Lord taught Adam and Eve the laws of righteousness by which they could live in peace and prosperity. They in turn taught these laws to their children.“And Satan came among them, saying: … Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish.” For centuries the posterity of Adam was repeatedly called to repentance by the prophets. Only the people of Enoch listened and obeyed.To the residue, the prophet “Noah … taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning.” But they would not hearken.“And the Lord said unto Noah: My Spirit shall not always strive with man, … yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years; and if men do not repent, I will send in the floods upon them. …“Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent; but they hearkened not. …“Every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually.” But Noah continued his preaching, saying:“Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, … and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, … and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not. …“And God looked upon the earth, and … it was corrupt. …“And God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will destroy all flesh from off the earth.” And this He did. Noah and his family were the sole survivors.The people of Sodom and Gomorrah went through a similar cycle. They were warned and heeded not. For their iniquities “the Lord rained upon [them] brimstone and fire. …“He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.” Jerusalem was destroyed and its inhabitants were scattered throughout the earth because of their rejection of God’s laws of righteous living.Warning and calling them to repentance, Jesus said:“Behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:“That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.“Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation.”Foreseeing their destruction caused him to lament: “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!“Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.” In America two great civilizations, the Jaredite and the Nephite, were completely annihilated because of their rejection of the laws of righteousness which God revealed unto them.In both cases, the Lord, through His prophets, pointed out their iniquities, warned them, and predicted their destruction if they did not repent. This they did not do. Consequently they were totally destroyed.We today are approaching the close of a similar cycle. We have been warned that we are ripening in iniquity and that we will be destroyed if we do not repent.In November 1831, the Lord, through His modern prophet, Joseph Smith, Jr., said:“Hearken, O ye people of my church, … verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.“For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated.“And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.“And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples.” May I remind you that the elders of Israel are some of those disciples.“And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. …“Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear:“Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh.” Now that was spoken of the coming of the Redeemer for the second time.“And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth.“And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, … shall be cut off from among the people.” Having so declared, the Lord thus stated the cause of the predicament in which the inhabitants of the earth find themselves today. This was His diagnosis:“They have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall.“Wherefore, I the Lord”—now He gives His remedy for what He saw coming—“knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;“And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world.” Among the things to be proclaimed unto the world were certain impending disasters. He said for example:“A desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out from time to time,  until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming.” That’s the Savior speaking.“Behold, I tell you these things, even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.”  italics added.)Later, He called upon Joseph Smith the Prophet and said, in part:“Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer. …“Ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect …“To prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked.“For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth;“For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass;“For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand. …“But, behold, I say unto you that before this great day shall come the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater signs in heaven above and in the earth beneath;“And there shall be weeping and wailing among the hosts of men;“And there shall be a great hailstorm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth.“And it shall come to pass, because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent; for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold, my blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not.“Wherefore, I the Lord God will send forth flies upon the face of the earth, which shall take hold of the inhabitants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and shall cause maggots to come in upon them;“And their tongues shall be stayed that they shall not utter against me; and their flesh shall fall from off their bones, and their eyes from their sockets.” Now my beloved brothers and sisters, I realize that these predictions are not pleasing, but nevertheless they speak the truth. They are the words of the true and living God, who said:“I tell you these things, even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.” There is but one way these impending calamities can be avoided, and that way is repentance.You know and I know that the inhabitants of the earth are steeped in sin and iniquity and that they are sinking deeper into the mire every day.But—and this is the glorious message—the Lord not only gave the warnings; He also revealed anew the means by which the ominous calamities may be averted.He has revealed anew the same simple truths He taught Adam and Eve in the beginning. Collectively, these teachings constitute the principles, doctrines, and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which begins with a knowledge of and faith in God our Eternal Father in heaven and Jesus Christ His Only Begotten Son in the flesh, our Savior and Redeemer. They include the truth that the inhabitants of the earth, God’s offspring, are in mortality for the purpose of being proved to see if they will keep the commandments of God.These commandments are not arbitrary edicts of a vindictive tyrant. They but set forth the laws and ordinances which produce—as a matter of cause and effect—peace, success, and happiness. Rejection of and disobedience to them has in the past always brought, and will continue to bring, failure and disaster as a natural consequence.The closing of the tragic cycle by the coming of the foreboding calamities can be averted if the inhabitants of the earth will repent, believe, and have faith in God as our Heavenly Father, in His Son Jesus Christ as our Redeemer, and will conform to their teachings. A good beginning would be to obey the commandments God gave to the children of Israel through Moses, the ones President Kimball has already quoted from this pulpit this day. The Lord said then and it is still true:“I am the Lord thy God. …“Thou shalt have no other gods before me. …“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. …“Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. …“Honour thy father and thy mother. …“Thou shalt not kill.“Thou shalt not commit adultery.“Thou shalt not steal.“Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.“Thou shalt not covet.” If the inhabitants of the earth will obey these commandments and, in addition, strive with full purpose of heart to comply with the words of Jesus to “love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind” and “love thy neighbour as thyself”  the predicted calamities can be prevented. But only in this manner can the closing of the tragic cycle in our day be averted.That it will be so I do not say. I do know, and I say, that as there was a Zion in the days of Enoch in which those who complied with God’s laws were saved, so there shall be a Zion in this last dispensation in which all those who live God’s revealed laws will be saved.To all of these things which the Lord has spoken, I bear my solemn witness in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.I stand here today to testify to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith and to declare my faith in the miracle by which the Book of Mormon was translated and published.Joseph Smith did more for the salvation of men in this world than anyone else who ever lived in it, with the sole exception of our Lord and Savior—our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, the divine Son of God.Joseph was the instrument through whom the true Church and kingdom of God were again restored to earth. He brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God. He was the means of having it published in his own day on two continents. He sent the everlasting gospel, now restored, to the four quarters of the earth.He received numerous revelations from the Lord, which have been published in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and our Church history. He gathered thousands of Latter-day Saints from abroad to establish a great city at Nauvoo, Illinois, with shops and fertile farms, churches, schools, and a university. He projected the westward migration of the Latter-day Saints and the settlement of the Great Basin, a work carried out later by his legal successor, President Brigham Young.He lived great, and he died great, a martyr to the cause of Christ; and, like most of the Lord’s anointed in ancient times, he sealed his mission and his testimony with his life’s blood. (See He left a name and a fame that will never die, and as the years roll on and the Church continues taking the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, his name will be magnified even further, honored and blessed by the millions of faithful who come to know how truly great his calling really was. He was foreordained in heaven to this mighty work in latter days. He fulfilled his mission with honor and inspiration, a beacon to all who follow him, giving glory always to God on high, for whom he labored.But great as this mighty prophet was, he had but a humble beginning. He was raised as a farm boy, with little formal education. His home as a youth was in western New York, then on the frontier of the United States.The family cleared trees in the forest to make their farm. They were a humble people. They knew poverty and hardship, but by diligent effort and the blessings of heaven they lived successful lives.The work of Joseph Smith was foretold by the prophet Isaiah, who spoke of his humble beginning and his lack of early education. Isaiah actually called him an unlearned man [see  This is significant in regard to this prophecy, for it becomes an unerring mark of identification.As he opens the subject in his twenty-ninth chapter, Isaiah describes a nation which would be destroyed suddenly, but which would speak in modern times, literally from the grave, by means of a book. [See He gives timing to the event also, and says it would be before Palestine regains its fertility [see  Palestine is now the fruitful field he envisioned, and the book has been published.The origin of this book was to be unusual for various reasons, but one was that it would involve both an unlearned man and a scholar [see  Joseph Smith was that unlearned man, at that time in his life. So remarkable would be the effect of the book’s publication that even the deaf would hear the words of the book, the blind would see, and the poor among men would rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. [See We testify that Isaiah’s prophecy has been fulfilled and that the book is now available. It is the Book of Mormon.How did it come about?An ancient nation which lived in America actually was destroyed suddenly, just as Isaiah foretold. Its population numbered in the millions. These people once had been righteous and had prophets among them who kept a sacred history engraved on metal plates. Before their final destruction, one of their prophets buried that record in the ground in a stone container for safekeeping. Hence, when this book was found, translated, and published in modern times, that early nation literally spoke out of the ground just as Isaiah said it would.How was this book brought forth?On the 22nd day of September 1823, near Palmyra, New York, an angel of God revealed its resting place to an eighteen-year-old boy named Joseph Smith, at this time as yet an unlearned, uneducated farm laborer, but now called of God to be His modern prophet.The book was of metal having the appearance of gold. It consisted of metallic pages as thin as common tin. Each page measured about seven by eight inches, and all were bound together at the back with metal rings which allowed the pages to be turned over easily. The book was about six inches thick. Each page was covered on both sides with ancient writing in small but beautifully engraved characters. The book lay in a stone box which had protected it from the elements for centuries.I pause here to ask if at that time there was any known parallel to such a record which could be pointed to for corroboration. The answer is no. There was none. But what of today, now, in 1977? The answer is yes—a resounding yes.For example, archaeologists have now found the engraved gold and silver records of King Sargon II of Assyria, dating to about 750 , buried in the ground in a stone box. The same thing is true of the gold plates of King Darius, who put Daniel in the lions’ den. Both sets of ancient records have been translated and published.Another similar set of metal plates, bound together like a book, has been found in Korea and may be seen in the museum at Seoul, and still another has been found in Italy. So, you see, it was not unusual that ancient records were preserved in this way.Many stone boxes have been found, especially in Mexico and Central America: Some are small, beautifully engraved and contain jewelry; others are large enough for food storage. The use of stone boxes was common in ancient times.But let us consider for a moment the actual translation of this record. Joseph Smith says he did it by the gift and power of God, through the use of the Urim and Thummim. As unlearned as he was at that time in his life, he could have done it in no other way.Enemies arose. They sought to destroy not only the Prophet Joseph himself, but also his work. They endeavored at every point to discredit what he did, to vilify and tarnish his innocent name, and to downgrade his work. They would not admit he was a prophet. They did not believe in modern revelation. They would seek only to debase him and abuse and defame him.So it was that they sought to take the divine stamp away from his translation of the Book of Mormon. They determined to “humanize” his work by saying that he himself had composed the volume, or that he stole it from Spaulding, or that Sidney Rigdon wrote it, although it was published well before Joseph ever heard of Sidney Rigdon.In their effort to “humanize” his work of translation they grudgingly gave him credit for knowledge and skills which he did not have, saying that he plagiarized parts of the Bible and literally took whole chapters out of it to compose his Book of Mormon—all of which claims, of course, were untrue and ridiculous.Joseph Smith declared that he wrote only under the gift and power of God. Oliver Cowdery, his scribe, said the same thing, adding, “I wrote with my own pen the entire Book of Mormon (save a few pages) as it fell from the lips of the Prophet [Joseph Smith] as he translated it by the gift and power of God.” (“Journal of Reuben Miller,” 21 Oct. 1848.)Martin Harris, another assistant scribe, bore the same testimony. And Emma Smith, the beloved wife of the prophet, who literally lived in and with and through this translation period, and assisted at times as a scribe, bore this testimony:“I am satisfied that no man could have dictated the writing of the manuscripts unless he was inspired. For when [I acted] as his scribe, [Joseph] would dictate to me hour after hour; and when returning after meals or after interruptions, he would at once begin where he had left off, without either seeing the manuscript or having any portion of it read to him. … It would have been improbable that a learned man could do this, and for one so … unlearned as he was, it was simply impossible.” ( 1879, 26:290.)Then how can critics truthfully say that Joseph Smith, in his youth, was so scholarly that he could or would deliberately take passages from the Bible and skillfully make it appear that they were part of the Book of Mormon manuscript?His mother said that at that early point in his life he had not yet even read through the Bible. Then how could he select carefully chosen passages and work them into the Book of Mormon so appropriately and skillfully?Not having read through the Bible in his early years, he had no adequate knowledge with which to do such an editing job even if he had been adept at writing or editing, neither of which skills he possessed that early in life.The Book of Mormon is a literary and a religious masterpiece, and is far beyond even the fondest hopes or abilities of any farm boy. It is a modern revelation from end to end. It is God-given.Read, for example, some of the Savior’s beautiful sermons in that book. Note that the Lord quotes Bible prophets. Are we to say that the unlearned Joseph Smith had the audacity or the skill to rewrite the Savior’s sermons and insert King James Version passages in them, thinking to improve on what Jesus said?Are we to believe the specious arguments of those critics who say that Joseph supposed that he could do better than the prophet Mormon? Did he have either the knowledge or the discretion to determine that the King James translators were superior to the prophet Mormon in the preparation of scriptural texts? Where is their sense of reason?Mormon was a mature and inspired prophet. Joseph was but an unlearned farm boy. Could Joseph improve on Mormon’s work?This young man was faithful to his charge. He did not tamper with the work of Mormon, the sermons of Jesus, the marvelous defense of Abinadi, or the writings of Malachi or Isaiah. He was strictly a translator, not an editor or a composer; nor was he a thief plagiarizing someone else’s work.The whole task of translation was a miracle. The book is “a marvellous work and a wonder,” as Isaiah said. But, the critics ask, how do we explain the similarity of certain passages in both the Book of Mormon and the Bible? It is very simple. When I lived in England a few years ago I went to the British Museum in London and studied the history of the King James Version of the Bible. I learned that its translators fasted and prayed for inspiration in their work. I am convinced that they received it.The similarity in the two books is but a testimony to the accuracy of the King James Version. Both books were beneficiaries of the inspiration of God.The Lord’s hand was in the Book of Mormon, fully and completely, but it was also in the King James Version of the Bible to a significant degree. The Book of Mormon confirms that. I am thankful that we accept the King James Version as the official Bible of this Church.From cover to cover the Book of Mormon is a revelation, an inspired translation, the work of God and not of any man. From cover to cover it is true.As Joseph Smith translated it, God spoke through him, and what was thus said Oliver Cowdery recorded; and he affirmed that it was all a miracle, done by the power of God, and he was an on-the-spot physical witness to it all.So out of Joseph Smith’s humble beginning came this new volume of scripture, a new revelation from God, a second faithful witness to the divinity of the Savior of the world.So let us remember, and let our critics remember, that it was Isaiah who said that Joseph Smith would bring forth that book as an unlearned man, and that it would be a miracle, “a marvellous work and a wonder.” And so it is.To this I bear my humble but solemn testimony in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.