He to whom you have just listened, Spencer Woolley Kimball, is God’s prophet to all the world. Not only are the heavens not sealed, as many suppose, but a living prophet is here admonishing and counseling and is available to all who will listen. He is God’s anointed for all mankind to follow.I ask the Lord to bless me as only He can that I might communicate to you the desires of my heart at this time.Next Sunday is Easter. For a brief few hours many in the world, believers and nonbelievers, will have recalled to their minds through pictures, stories, and messages in the media or from church pulpits the final events culminating in the death and resurrection of our Lord.The fragmentary accounts of the Savior’s brief ministry are sufficient to give us at least a small feeling of His great love. His desire is to help us. He will give to each of us as much of His own spirit as we are prepared to accept. His work and glory is to save all mankind. As I read and ponder Christ’s teachings, given to help us understand His purposes, and as I witness the miraculous events occurring today in the spreading of His work, I feel a swelling in my bosom—a testimony of their eternal truth.Shortly before the Savior’s betrayal and the subsequent events that will be celebrated next week, an event now known as the Transfiguration occurred, which I am sure was meant for our spiritual enlightenment as well as for those who were personal witnesses.The New Testament writers tell us the Savior took with Him the three dearest and most enlightened of His apostles and went up a lofty mountain—Luke says simply “a mountain” (see to find a secluded spot where He could kneel in prayer and prepare for the events soon to come.It must have been early evening when the Savior ascended the mountain with those three chosen witnesses—James and John, known as the “sons of thunder,” and Peter, the “man of rock.” Perhaps Jesus felt not only a sense of the heavenly calm which that solitary opportunity for communion with His Father would bring, but even more, a sense that He would be supported in the coming hour by ministrations not of this earth. He was to be illuminated with a light which needed no aid from the sun or the moon or the stars. He went up to prepare for His coming death. He took His three apostles with Him in the belief that they, after having seen His glory—the glory of the Only Begotten of the Father—might be fortified, that their faith might be strengthened to prepare them for the insults and humiliating events which were to follow.We learn from what has been written that the Savior, finding a secluded place, knelt and prayed; and as He prayed to His Father, He was elevated far above the doubt and wickedness of the world which had rejected Him. As He prayed He was transfigured. His countenance shone as the sun, and His garments became white as the snow fields above them. He was enwrapped in an aura of glistening brilliance—His whole presence reflected such a divine radiance that the light of the sun or the white of the snow are the only things to which the evangelists can compare that celestial scene. Two figures appeared by His side. There stood by Him Moses and Elijah. When the prayer was ended, the coming ordeal undoubtedly accepted, then the full glory fell upon Him, from heaven—a testimony of His divine Sonship and power.  [See Luke’s account indicates that the three apostles did not witness the beginning of this marvelous transfiguration. The three apostles, as they would later be at Gethsemane, were heavy with sleep, the account says. But they were suddenly startled into wakefulness. Then they saw and heard. In the darkness of the night the apostles saw an intense light and the glorified form of their Lord. Beside Him, in that same glory of light, were two persons whom they knew or heard to be Moses and Elijah. Undoubtedly they spoke with Jesus of His coming death at Jerusalem.As the vision began to fade, Peter, the account says, spoke the first thoughts that came to his mind, and, apparently anxious to delay the departure of the heavenly visitors, said: “Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee and one for Moses, and one for Elias.” They may have been surprised at the inappropriate proposal made by the eager Peter, who would yet learn the meaning of the night’s events. But even as Peter spoke, a bright cloud of brilliant light overshadowed Jesus and his heavenly visitors, Moses and Elijah, and also the three apostles; and a voice was heard: “This is my beloved Son: hear him.” The three apostles fell prostrate and hid their faces. How long it was before Jesus came to them and touched them is not clear from the account; but when they raised their eyes, it was all over. The bright cloud had vanished. The gleams of light, the shining countenances had passed away; they were alone with Jesus. Now only the light from the stars was on the mountain slopes.After such an experience, the apostles may have hesitated to rise; but Jesus, now appearing as they had seen Him before He knelt in prayer, touched them saying, “Arise, and be not afraid.”  He was their dear friend.The day was probably dawning as they descended the mountain. Jesus instructed them to tell no man until He had risen from the dead. The vision was for them; it was to be pondered over by them in depths of their own hearts. They were not even to tell the other apostles. They kept Christ’s instructions but could not understand the full meaning. They could only ask each other, or wonder in silence, what this resurrection from the dead could mean. But they now knew more fully than ever that their Lord was indeed the Christ, the Son of God.Though difficult for us to understand, Jesus himself must have been strengthened and sustained by Moses and Elijah to prepare Him for the suffering and agony ahead for Him in working out the infinite and eternal atonement of all mankind. An angel from heaven would again in a few days strengthen Him when He would sweat great drops of blood in the Garden of Gethsemane.The three chosen apostles were taught of His coming death and also His resurrection, teachings that would strengthen each of them in the eventful days ahead.Testifying later, John said, “We beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father”  and the apostle Peter, speaking of this personal experience, wrote: “For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.“For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.“And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.” Peter, James, and John—they alone beheld the glory and majesty of the transfigured Jesus and undoubtedly received the keys of the kingdom. These three were yet to be taken to a spot in Gethsemane where they would behold his suffering as He took upon Himself the sins of the world that He might redeem us from the Fall and through His resurrection demonstrate to us that He is the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh and show unto us that He is the Redeemer of the world.These same three witnesses who were on the mount—Peter, the senior of Christ’s apostles, and James and John—appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in 1829 and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood and gave to them the keys of the kingdom and apostleship. Christ Himself, followed by Moses, Elias, and Elijah, appeared to Joseph and Oliver in the Kirtland Temple, giving authority and committing other essential keys of this dispensation. The Prophet’s own words of this event record:“In the afternoon, I assisted the other presidents in distributing the Lord’s Supper to the Church, receiving it from the Twelve, whose privilege it was to officiate at the sacred desk this day. After having performed this service to my brethren. I retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, and bowed myself with Oliver Cowdery, in solemn and silent prayer. After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us. …“The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened.“We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. …“I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father. …“After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel. …“After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.“After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood before us, and said: …“Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors.”  The divine keys, power, and authority were committed by heavenly messengers to Joseph Smith in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. Those keys—the same that were delivered to Peter, James, and John on the mountain—authorize us to carry the gospel to all nations and declare the power, glory, and majesty of our Lord Jesus Christ and that the day of His coming is near. The prophet of God, to whom we have listened this morning, holds these keys and authority today. We invite people everywhere to inquire further into this divine message which we have to offer to all mankind.I testify in all sincerity to the truth of these things, in the name of Him whom we honor, worship, and love as our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus the Christ. In His holy name, amen.My beloved brethren and sisters, this is a happy day to address you concerning the work of the Lord, and its progress and development.Many things have happened in the interval since last October conference, in the six months that have passed.We have returned from a long, glorious trip into the faraway places to visit and address our beloved people in the far south. We have traveled approximately 23,000 miles. We have gone from volcanoes of Chile in the far south, to the heights of the Andes Mountains, all along to the plains, to the forests.In our many contacts, we have visited and borne testimony to approximately 150,000 of our members in area conferences. We have found them growing, developing, happy people, and we are sure that our Heavenly Father is pleased with what we saw in the people, in their activities, attitudes, their faith, and their testimony.Early this year when drouth conditions seemed to be developing in the West, the cold and hardships in the East, with varying weather situations all over the world, we felt to ask the members of the Church to join in fasting and prayer, asking the Lord for moisture where it was so vital and for a cessation of the difficult conditions elsewhere.Perhaps we may have been unworthy in asking for these greatest blessings, but we do not wish to frantically approach the matter but merely call it to the attention of our Lord and then spend our energy to put our lives in harmony.One prophet said:“When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou afflictest them:“Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy people Israel, that thou teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and give rain upon thy land, which thou hast given to thy people for an inheritance.” The Lord uses the weather sometimes to discipline his people for the violation of his laws. He said to the children of Israel:“If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;“Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.“And your threshing shall reach into the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time; and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.“And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: … neither shall the sword go through your land.” With the great worry and suffering in the East and threats of drouth here in the West and elsewhere, we asked the people to join in a solemn prayer circle for moisture where needed. Quite immediately our prayers were answered, and we were grateful beyond expression. We are still in need and hope that the Lord may see fit to answer our continued prayers in this matter.From all around the world we have received letters indicating a general response to the suggestion. From Brisbane, Australia, comes this:“We received your cable inviting the Saints in Brisbane to join you and the world in a day of fasting and prayer. We share your love and concern for all of our Heavenly Father’s children. …”Perhaps the day has come when we should take stock of ourselves and see if we are worthy to ask or if we have been breaking the commandments, making ourselves unworthy of receiving the blessings.The Lord gave strict commandments: “Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord.” Innumerous times we have quoted this, asking our people not to profane the Sabbath; and yet we see numerous cars lined up at merchandise stores on the Sabbath day, and places of amusement crowded, and we wonder.Numerous times have we quoted:“Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.“Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work:“But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates:“For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.” But today numerous of the people of this land spend the Sabbath working, devoting the day to the beaches, to entertainment, to shows, to their weekly purchases. The Lord makes definite promises. He says:“Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.” God does what  promises, and many of us continue to defile the Sabbath day. He then continues:“And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.” These promises are dependable. The Lord says further:“And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be my people.“I am the Lord your God … and I have broken the bands of your yoke.” The Lord reverses now and warns:“But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these commandments;“And if ye shall despise my statutes, or if your soul abhor my judgments, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but … break my covenant:“I also will do this unto you; I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague, that shall consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.“And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be slain before your enemies: they that hate you shall reign over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you. …“And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass:“And your strength shall be spent in vain: for your land shall not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits.” The Lord goes further and says:“I will … destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your high ways shall be desolate.” Can you think how the highways could be made desolate? When fuel and power are limited, when there is none to use, when men will walk instead of ride?Have you ever thought, my good folks, that the matter of peace is in the hands of the Lord who says:“And I will bring a sword upon you. …” Would that be difficult? Do you read the papers? Are you acquainted with the hatreds in the world? What guarantee have you for permanent peace?“… and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.” Are there enemies who could and would afflict us? Have you thought of that?“And I will make your cities waste,” he says, “and bring your sanctuaries unto desolation. …“Then shall the land enjoy her sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your enemies’ land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy her sabbaths.“As long as it lieth desolate it shall rest; because it did not rest [when it could] in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it.” Those are difficult and very serious situations, but they are possible.And the Lord concludes:“These are the statutes and judgments and laws, which the Lord made between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.” This applies to you and me.Would this be a good time to deeply concern ourselves with these matters? Is this a time when we should return to our homes, our families, our children? Is this the time we should remember our tithes and our offerings, a time when we should desist from our abortions, our divorces, our Sabbath breaking, our eagerness to make the holy day a holiday?Is this a time to repent of our sins, our immoralities, our doctrines of devils?Is this a time for all of us to make holy our marriages, live in joy and happiness, rear our families in righteousness?Certainly many of us  better than we  Is this a time to terminate adultery and homosexual and lesbian activities, and return to faith and worthiness? Is this a time to end our heedless pornographies?Is this the time to set our face firmly against unholy and profane things, and whoredoms, irregularities, and related matters?Is the time to enter new life? As the clear-thinking apostle Paul said:“Mortify therefore your members … fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:“For which things’ sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience.” Would this be a good time to eliminate “the works of the flesh … ; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like,” remembering that “they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God”? The Lord asks, “And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?” “Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that  the will of my Father which is in heaven.”  italics added.)The temple work for the Church is going forward. We are proud of the service rendered, attendance at the temple; but is not total service required? It was brought out in our meeting the other day that to go to the temple is  sufficient; we must get many, many names of people so that we can carry on the work for them.We now have sixteen temples, with four others under contemplation. But have you thought of the other work that can be done nearby and far away? One does not need to live in the temple district very close to carry on this work. Great quantities of genealogical data and family records can be produced and made available for the work which can be done later when temples are available. Perhaps this is preeminent.So we urge all our multitudes of people to write their personal records and biographies and their genealogies and all be prepared for the days when the temples are made available and can be used by all. This is a program long followed by members of this Church, but today there are numerous friends—Catholics, Protestants, Jews, and others—who are filling our genealogical rooms with their preparation of  family lines.We are told that microfilming in Rhodesia is being permitted. Cameras are also filming in South Africa and in many other nations throughout the world.Next week we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the dedication of the St. George Temple, the first in the West.The  phenomenon has had an amazing impact on the people of this country, and more and more people are concerned with the genealogical program. Numerous genealogical libraries throughout the Church in the world are serving and making records available for patrons as the momentum of children’s hearts turning to their fathers builds up, as suggested by Malachi. The news media, national and international, are all making inquiries. Film crews are working. Millions of Americans have been reached by these articles, and this helps explain to them the theological basis for our emphasis on the family.This is a firm and positive and important element of our religious teaching.“Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me.” “Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord:“And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.” That’s an ominous, portentous thing.With a century of intensive work in genealogy and records, there has been a great accumulation of records of life, birth, death; and today there are millions of people in eternity, many of them who have lived on the earth at a time when records were not kept, and the work was not done, and temples were not erected, and prophets did not exist.“And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and said, all the words which the Lord hath said will we do.“And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the Lord hath said will we do, and be obedient.” May I mention again our program on home gardens. From all over the globe come notes from members who participate in the production projects. Here is a picture of several little boys and their father with a wheelbarrow full of cabbages, tomatoes, beans, melons, and all kinds of produce.There was Sonja’s garden in the heart of São Paulo, a great metropolis. Others say: “This a way of making lasting relationships of friends and neighbors.”“Our gardens are a matter of discussion in private, in socials at home. It has brought our families together,” they say.One home teacher reports: “Of the five families whom I visit, all have home gardens, and it makes me very proud. I find them anxious now to plant for another year.”Brothers and sisters, this is the work of the Lord. We deal with many things which are thought to be not so spiritual; but all things are spiritual with the Lord, and he expects us to listen, and to obey, and to follow the commandments. And I beg of you—all of us—that we live the commandments of the Lord which are brought forth in these conferences from time to time by the various Brethren. And I bear testimony to the divinity of it all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.