My dear brothers and sisters, I have been reflecting on the counsels of the First Presidency relative to Welfare Services, and I have been impressed that through them we all have received a call to action. President Kimball reminded us in the April 1976 welfare session of general conference of the words of the Lord:“Why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?” On February 2 of this year, at a historic meeting of the General Welfare Services Committee of the Church, President Marion G. Romney stated:“All Church members, from kindergarten to high priests groups and all Relief Society sisters, should be so plainly, accurately, and inspirationally taught that  applicable welfare principles and procedures in their personal lives and in their family and Church responsibilities.”There is no mistaking these counsels. They are asking us, pleading with us, to  to  to  the welfare work of the Church. We have been reevaluating the crucial role of Relief Society workers in this area. We recognize that the women of the Church have a great responsibility to  to  to  and to  in harmony and in partnership with the priesthood in this important work.In one ward a Relief Society president seemed to understand these responsibilities. In a regular weekly ward welfare services committee meeting she reported that an elderly widow was having trouble coping with life after the recent loss of her husband. Her health was waning, her legs were causing her problems and limiting her ability to move about and care for herself. She was understandably very lonely and also worried about her neglected garden. Considerable concern was expressed about her poor diet. The ward Relief Society president explained that compassionate service assignments had been made to the visiting teachers and to other sisters in the ward to help her plan and prepare three balanced meals each day and to organize and do such needed housework as the sister would permit. The home teachers agreed to ask her if she would like them to give her a special blessing. They also said they would keep up her garden and look for other ways to be helpful.After several weeks, as a result of the blessing and the loving help, she gained courage and a desire to be self-sustaining.This story illustrates how the ward welfare services committee can work together to meet the needs of ward members.Stake and district Relief Society presidencies everywhere should plan what to teach so that ward and branch presidencies will more fully understand and carry out their welfare duties efficiently and effectively. Specifically, they should teach how a ward Relief Society president—As Relief Society presidents perform these functions they will be fulfilling a primary purpose of the Relief Society as laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he said that an objective of the Relief Society is “the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.” ( 4:567.)As we serve we should be fulfilling the priesthood expectations as stated by President Harold B. Lee in a welfare meeting in October of 1946:“I would like to think this: A wife in a home, a woman, is expected to be … an intelligent and inspired participant in the family partnership. That is just where we think the place of the Relief Society is in the Welfare Program. … We expect that they shall be invited in as intelligent participants in the  of the Welfare partnership, and without that invitation and without that opportunity, we are not going to get the solidarity that we otherwise could expect.” ( Dec. 1946, p. 814.)President Tanner restated this partnership principle in June 1976 when he said:“The presidency of the Relief Society, having a specific responsibility placed upon them by the President of the Church at the time they were organized, should be considered as a partner with the Melchizedek Priesthood in somewhat the same manner as a wife would work with her husband in directing the affairs of the family.” (Announcement by the First Presidency, reported in  June 5, 1976, p. 3.)In welfare services the Melchizedek Priesthood and Relief Society leaders should exemplify that partnership at the stake level by correlating plans for the proper training of ward officers, and at the ward level in both the training of ward welfare services personnel and in implementing the program.Something of this relationship might be seen if I relate a conversation with a friend of mine. He said, “My wife and I decided to face the front of our home with rocks. So I called around and located a place where I could get them.“I started to get into my truck when my wife called to me and said, ‘Let me go with you. I want to help you.’“When we got to the place where the rocks were located, we found them on the top of a hill. I complained, ‘That’s going to be a terrible job to get those rocks down.’“My wife said, ‘I’ll go up to the top of the hill and roll the rocks down to you and then you’ll just have to carry them over to the truck. How does that sound?’“I thought that was a good idea,” he said. “I watched her climb to the top of the hill and disappear for a few minutes. Soon she called out, ‘Here comes the first rock. Here comes another one.’ Then she said, ‘Oh, this rock is a beauty. I hope this one won’t be too heavy for you to carry.’“I said, ‘I’ll carry anything you roll down.’“Then she said, ‘Look at this rock. It has real character. Here comes my favorite.’”He said, “She actually had me waiting anxiously for each rock.” And then he said, “In this endeavor, as in many other of our projects together, she had given me not only the help I needed but a perspective that often eludes men.”I would like to see all sisters, particularly Relief Society presidents, acting as helpmeets to the priesthood in the rendering of welfare assistance.I urge Relief Society leaders everywhere to accept the call to action of our inspired prophets to perform and to accomplish our assigned welfare tasks. May we work together as companions with the priesthood, remembering the principle of partnership; may we teach effectively the fundamentals of welfare services, and implement them by enlarging our vision of this work, particularly as it applies to the art of compassionate services. For as President Marion G. Romney once said:“Effective administration of relief to the poor is an art, and it is an art which every dedicated Relief Society worker will seek to perfect in herself.” ( Feb. 1961, p. 77.)I pray that every Relief Society worker and leader will recognize our great opportunity, our obligation to render assistance to those in need, sympathetically, appropriately, and lovingly—even in the spirit of Jesus Christ when he said:“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My brothers and sisters, how great it is to meet with you in general conference. I have been asked to discuss the role of the stake bishops council and its chairman. This council exists for a vital purpose, but I am not sure that we all recognize its significance and power to help build and facilitate the work of the Kingdom.To put the stake bishops council in perspective, may I briefly review those stake meetings in which welfare matters are regularly treated. First, and perhaps foremost, is the stake welfare services committee meeting. Usually held just after stake executive committee meeting, the primary focuses of this meeting are  of stake high council and Relief Society leaders who in turn train on the ward level, and Second is the monthly bishopric training session, where specific elements of all bishopric-related programs are taught; periodically Welfare Services principles, duties, and activities are treated.Third is the stake bishops council meeting, which focuses primarily on operational matters. More than anything else, this is a business meeting in which the implementation of welfare services is reported on and analyzed and action decisions are made Let us look closely at this council. As you know, the council is made up of all bishops in a stake. One bishop is appointed as chairman by the stake presidency. Normally the chairman prepares the agenda and conducts council meetings under the direction of the stake presidency, which is given through personal priesthood interviews. He also represents all ward bishops on the stake welfare services committee. While no specific meeting frequency is set forth, this council should meet no less often than quarterly and, as circumstances dictate, it may well meet monthly.The first responsibility of the stake bishops council is to make certain that the Lord’s storehouse functions properly. Through the chairman, members of the council should regularly evaluate and report on the management and operation of the storehouse. Regardless of whether a bishop is served by a stake, a regional, or an area storehouse, he has a voice in storehouse matters through this council. Through stake and region bishops councils, bishops may make specific recommendations for improvement. They should ensure that the storehouse is adequately stocked, that quality standards are observed, that financial matters are properly handled, and that the storehouse is clean and orderly. Periodically, the council chairman should arrange for the bishops to visit the storehouse and become familiar with its functioning and ensure that it is always treated and operated as a temporal temple.Most important, the stake bishops council encourages uniformity in distribution practices by the bishops to those in need of assistance throughout the stake.All this implies, of course, that bishops have a stewardship regarding the storehouse. When Harold B. Lee was president of the Pioneer Stake in the days of the depression, he organized a welfare committee and they built a storehouse. After completion, they dedicated the building. In this special meeting, President Lee gave the storehouse keys to the bishops and in substance said, “Brethren, here are the keys to the Lord’s storehouse. You now have a stewardship regarding the storehouse. We have done the work in getting it established. It is now your stewardship to watch and see that it provides quality commodities in a timely and proper fashion to care for the poor and the needy.”The storehouse is the Lord’s storehouse. It serves the bishops in their role of caring for those in need. That is the concept of the storehouse. Each storehouse is a sacred temporal facility essential to the bishop’s efforts to care for those in need. While many of you do not have access to a storehouse, it is the doctrine of the Church that each bishop have a physical storehouse available from which he may draw goods. Working through proper priesthood channels and with the Welfare Services Department, you may receive assistance and direction in establishing a storehouse in your area.The second responsibility of the stake bishops council is to help develop the annual commodity production budget and to provide the needed commodities according to the plan. The stake bishops council provides input regarding the commodities they anticipate will be required to meet the needs of each ward. Bishops then encourage ward members to serve on projects and work-related assignments. Work requests come to the bishopric. These are discussed and assigned in the ward welfare services committee meeting. Quorums organize quorum members and their families to provide labor on projects. Thereby commodities are produced to care for those in need.The stake welfare services committee has the primary stewardship for seeing that production projects are established according to the area master plan. But the bishops council should feel an obligation to provide valuable insight as to the relationship between the storehouse and the various production projects.The fourth responsibility of the stake bishops council is to review fast offering donations and expenditures. President Kimball has encouraged us to give a generous fast offering. The chairman, the council and the stake presidency should review all of the principles relating to both payment and use of these sacred funds. This meeting is the ideal time to ensure that this program is properly administered. The bishops have a responsibility to see that contributed funds are properly administered and that items from the storehouse and the Deseret Industries are always used before cash is spent outside the Lord’s system.Fifth, and most important, is the responsibility to see that members work to the extent of their ability for any Church assistance they receive. Fundamental to the gospel of Jesus Christ is the philosophy that men should earn their daily bread by the sweat of their brow. The council chairman should encourage discussion of good examples of how this part of the Lord’s assistance plan can function “in His own way.”A sixth responsibility of the bishops council is to provide training for bishops in specific welfare services matters: this may include how to fill out bishops orders; how to analyze the needs of members; how to evaluate family resources and know the extent to which the Church should provide assistance; how to utilize the ward Relief Society presidency to help needy members; and when and how to use fast offerings. Where applicable, the bishops should also receive detailed instruction regarding the employment system, the bishops storehouse system, production and processing projects, Welfare Services missionaries, health resources, LDS Social Services, and Deseret Industries so they will know how to make appropriate use of these resources to help those in need.Stake presidencies have the obligation and duty to teach the principles of welfare services and to encourage bishops to carry the same message to the members. Love and service, work and self-reliance, stewardship and consecration, the provident living that comes from personal and family preparedness, caring for the poor and the needy—these are principles members must learn and practice if they would live celestial lives in a telestial world. These same teachings must come down through quorum leaders as well.The stake bishops council, then, provides a tremendous forum wherein bishops may discuss and obtain counsel regarding stake and regional welfare operations and problems. At this meeting the bishops council chairman should inform, instruct, and inspire bishops in welfare matters.I will always be grateful I had the opportunity of growing up with the welfare plan. My father was a bishop at the time of its beginning. He had a remarkable way of involving his family with him in his Church assignments. At an early, impressionable age I was taught the blessings of Church service.I will always remember the dignity and patience he exhibited towards those in need. I particularly remember a little old man who had lost his wife and some of the soundness of his mind. My father not only filled the role of his bishop, but also that of his friend. To the family, however, this little old man was considered to be somewhat of a pest. When he would become lonely he would make his way to see my father. It didn’t matter whether it was ten o’clock at night or five-thirty in the morning, Father would always welcome him into our home, give him some nourishment, and then he would drive him back to his place of residence.I remember at his passing seeing Father reading a letter addressed to “My friend, Bishop Perry,” as a final thank-you for taking an interest in his life when he was an old man. I saw the tears roll down my father’s cheeks as he read the letter. It was then I think I recognized for the first time an understanding of the rewards of gospel service.To all the Bishop Perrys there are in this world, I ask that the Lord’s choicest blessings will always guide and attend you. May these special moments of sweet reward for service rendered in our Father in heaven’s kingdom sustain you and support you in your great and noble callings, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.