Not long ago I attended a stake conference that was not far away, and by hurrying I was able to get home early enough on Sunday afternoon to have the privilege of attending the sacrament service in our own home ward. Throughout the Church all around the world, thousands and thousands of families attend sacrament meeting on the day of rest—the Lord’s day—most of them led by the priesthood bearer of the home, whose responsibility it is to guide the family in keeping the commandments of God. The Lord said, “And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day.” It was interesting to watch people going to the chapel, some walking down the street, others coming by automobiles and turning into the parking lot. From all around they were gathering—men, women, youth, and children. Many were coming as families.Families usually consist of a father, mother, and children, but this is not always the case. Sometimes there is not a mother or a father, and sometimes no children. Often there is one person living alone. In years gone by, our family was larger, but now it consists of only two.When we entered the chapel, Bishop Salisbury, in his usual gracious manner, greeted us with a warm handclasp. As we went down the aisle, Brother Doxey, our home teacher, nodded a greeting and we responded similarly—an affectionate greeting in the spirit of a handshake except that distance separated us. And there was Brother Jensen, who was formerly our home teacher, sitting with his wife and daughters. We could also see Sister Nielsen and Sister Whitney, the lovely Relief Society visiting teachers who come to our home and bring a ray of spiritual sunshine to cheer up Sister Hunter. A couple moved over and let us sit by them, and someone on the row behind touched us on the shoulder and whispered that they were glad to see us.We were among friends. We were among more than friends—we were with both brothers and sisters—literally. The organ was being played softly, and there were a few moments of quiet meditation before the big hand of the clock in the chapel was at the highest point, indicating the time of commencement of a sacred hour.One of the counselors to the bishop, in a dignified but friendly manner, came to the pulpit and gave a word of greeting and announced the name of the hymn we were to sing.The priests sat quietly at the sacrament table. I looked at each of them—well-groomed, reverent, serious. Many young men of their age were spending the day in recreation or sports, but they had come to the house of the Lord. Seated in front of them was a row of deacons. They, too, were well groomed and well behaved, taking seriously the responsibility of their first office in the Aaronic Priesthood.As I looked at these priests and deacons, there came a realization that they were from good homes with parents who loved them and who taught them to keep the commandments of the Lord. Then came thoughts of others who have an interest in them: their bishop and his counselors, home teachers, priesthood leaders and teachers, those who are helping them in the Sunday School and the young men’s organization, Scouting and Exploring leaders, and an array of persons who are giving their time and effort to teach and encourage them in their young years.The time will not be long, I thought, until these priests and deacons will be in the mission field to fulfill the commandment given to all faithful elders in the Church: “Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” After a hymn and prayer, and while the priests were preparing the sacrament, we were led in singing:A priest kneeled over the broken bread and prayed: “That they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments.”  The deacons dispersed throughout the chapel to serve the broken bread. One of them came to our row and held the silver tray while I partook. Then I held the tray so Sister Hunter could partake, and she held it for the person next to her. Thus the tray went down the row, each serving and being served.I thought of the events that took place on the evening nearly two thousand years ago when Jesus was betrayed. He had sent Peter and John into Jerusalem to make ready the Passover. This included, as was the custom, the sacrifice of a lamb. The laws of sacrifice had been followed down through the centuries since commenced by Father Adam, looking toward the time when the Savior would make the great sacrifice for mankind by the shedding of His own blood and death on the cross.After the Master and the Twelve had partaken of the feast of the Passover on that occasion, “Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.“And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it.“And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many.” Thus was the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper introduced to replace sacrifice and be a reminder to all those who partake that He truly made a sacrifice for them; and to be an additional reminder of the covenants they have made to follow Him, keep His commandments, and be faithful to the end.While thinking about this, the admonition of Paul in his letter to the church in Corinth came to my mind. He said: “Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.“But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.“For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.” I was troubled. I asked myself this question: “Do I place God above all other things and keep all of His commandments?” Then came reflection and resolution. To make a covenant with the Lord to always keep His commandments is a serious obligation, and to renew that covenant by partaking of the sacrament is equally serious. The solemn moments of thought while the sacrament is being served have great significance. They are moments of self-examination, introspection, self-discernment—a time to reflect and to resolve.By this time the other priest was kneeling at the table, praying that all who should drink “may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed for them; … that they do always remember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them.” There was quiet meditation, the silence broken only by the voice of a tiny babe whose mother quickly held him close. Anything that breaks the silence during this sacred ordinance seems out of place; but surely the sound of a little one would not displease the Lord. He, too, had been cradled by a loving mother at the beginning of a mortal life that commenced in Bethlehem and ended on the cross of Calvary.The young men concluded serving the sacrament. Then followed words of encouragement and instruction, a closing hymn and prayer; and the sacred moments “unmarred by earthly care” had come to a close. On the way home we saw several boys playing ball in the street and a family returning in their motor home from a weekend in the mountains. This thought came to my mind: What a wonderful thing it would be if all persons had an understanding of the purpose of baptism and the willingness to accept of it; the desire to keep the covenants made in that ordinance to serve the Lord and live His commandments; and, in addition, the desire to partake of the sacrament on the Sabbath day to renew those covenants to serve Him and be faithful to the end.In speaking of the covenants one makes when he partakes of the sacrament, a former president of the Church once stated: “Who can measure the responsibility of such a covenant? How far reaching! How comprehensive! It excludes from man’s life, profanity, vulgarity, idleness, enmity, jealousy, drunkenness, dishonesty, hatred, selfishness, and every form of vice. It obligates him to sobriety, to industry, to kindness, to the performance of every duty in church and state. He binds himself to respect his fellowmen, to honor the Priesthood, to pay his tithes and offerings and to consecrate his life to the service of humanity.” (David O. McKay,  85:778.)Having attended sacrament meeting and partaken of the sacrament made the day more meaningful, and I felt that I better understood the reason why the Lord said, “And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High.” I know that Jesus is the Christ and that He lives, having been put to death as the atoning sacrifice and resurrected that all men may live again and have eternal life. I pray that we may faithfully follow Him, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My brothers and sisters and friends, the following statement is sometimes voiced by well-intentioned and sincere individuals: “You go to your church; I’ll go to mine; but let us walk together.” However, can people really walk together if they don’t agree on the basic teachings of the doctrines of Christ? Do all Christian churches teach the true gospel and its principles and also have the authority to administer the saving ordinances which will guide and exalt their members in God’s heavenly kingdom?Jesus taught: “Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:“Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.” Does that statement by the Savior suggest there are many ways to heaven? Many people do accept man’s philosophy that “all roads lead to God,” but it is a philosophy inconsistent with the teachings of our Lord.There is no logic or reason to the proposition that inconsistent teachings and differing doctrines can bring about the same results. If truth comes from one source—God—how can it be so diversely taught?We know that all truth  emanate from God and is therefore unchangeable, consistent, and unified. Consequently, not all Christian churches with their dissimilar teachings can provide a fulness of truth. My intent is to assert with testimony and persuasion of scripture the reasons there can be only one Lord, one acceptable faith, one baptism, and one true church. Then if any of you are convinced you are mistaken in your present beliefs, you should have the courage to investigate and the faith to change and follow the true path Christ has outlined that assures one’s eternal happiness.When Jesus walked this earth among men, He proclaimed to His disciples: “I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.”  He proclaimed that the doctrines He taught were given to Him by his Father. He took no credit Himself—only that He was doing what the Father had given Him to do. “For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth.” “I and my Father are one,” said the Savior.  This statement does not mean they are one person, but that Jesus and His Father are one in purpose.To hear and accept Jesus is to hear and accept His Father. Their teachings and objectives are identical. The doctrine of salvation is the same for all of God’s progeny. Jesus prayed in His intercessory prayer to His Father concerning those who complied with His doctrines and ordinances: “And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, ”  italics added.)To proclaim this doctrine of the Father and the Son, Jesus established His church on the earth. There were then, as there are today, many versions of truth represented by different religious denominations. The Savior didn’t choose any of the churches established by man, either when He ministered on earth or in these latter days. He organized His own church with prophets and apostles, with a gospel plan of salvation and exaltation. It was the church of Jesus Christ.Jesus recognized that the various sects did not have a fulness of truth and did not possess the authority to administer the ordinances of salvation. When many religious leaders became offended by His teachings, Jesus then proclaimed most of His doctrines by using parables. These made clear to the spiritually attuned person that there was to be only “one fold, and one shepherd.” “Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.“But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.“To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.“And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.“And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.” When this parable was not fully understood, Jesus plainly explained it by saying:“I am the door of the sheep. …“If any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture. …“I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.“But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth.” The testimony that Jesus is the Good Shepherd was a figure of speech familiar to those accustomed to the pastoral conditions of Palestine. Jesus knew His hearers were acquainted with the prophecy that a shepherd had been promised the children of Israel. David, the shepherd boy who became king, wrote the beautiful Twenty-third Psalm that begins: “The Lord is my shepherd”  Isaiah prophesied that when God would come down, “He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm.”  There was no mistaking what Jesus meant. He was their Lord—the promised Messiah!By likening false teachers and pastors to thieves and hirelings whose concern was for money rather than the flock, Jesus repudiated all pretenders. A stronger indictment could not be imagined! Then to make His point so clear that no one could misunderstand, He stated: “There shall be one fold, and one shepherd.” He did not recognize then, nor has He recognized since, a multiplicity of folds or shepherds.After Jesus put his apostles in charge of the Church anciently, they preached the same unity of doctrine and practiced the same ordinances which Jesus had given them. These apostles were not self-appointed servants, for Jesus said to them: “Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit.” They were authorized ministers called to teach and officiate in the saving ordinances of the gospel. Jesus had conferred the priesthood authority on them. As long as they remained on the earth, functioning under the authority Jesus gave them, unity of doctrine and uniformity of the ordinances prevailed. The gospel message, which they were commanded to take to all the world, was the same to everyone everywhere. People were not taught different gospels and then given a choice. There was only one plan for all.Because of the universality of these requirements for salvation, the apostle Paul wrote: “There is … one Lord, one faith, one baptism.”  On another occasion he wrote: “But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed.” One church, one authorized ministry, one orthodox gospel doctrine, and one Holy Ghost characterized the church of Jesus Christ in His time. “For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints.”  Thus God’s revelation to leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ was reasonable, consistent, and unified.It was only after the death of Christ’s apostles that revelation ceased. The pure doctrines Christ taught became diluted with the philosophy of the world, and profane innovations appeared in the ordinances of the church. Eventually, that which had once been clear and understandable became mythical and confusing. Confusion is the field where Satan operates to deceive and lead mankind astray. Jesus and His apostles predicted a “falling away” (see  which did occur, and Christianity entered a long night of darkness.Today a multiplicity of churches and doctrines abound, all claiming one source. Such a claim, of course, defies reason and contradicts the teachings and pattern established by Jesus Christ. A sincere seeker for truth must ask: “Which, if any, of the varying Christian groups is right?” For guidance, the apostle James gave this counsel: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.”  If you sincerely put this promise to the test in seeking light and truth, you will be rewarded.Moroni, a Book of Mormon prophet, outlines a simple way to know the authenticity of the gospel of Christ. He exhorted: “And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.“And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.” Since it is clear that Jesus was one with His Father and that they accepted only one fold, or church, it is essential for every seeker after truth to recognize the hallmarks of the true church. The church of Jesus Christ in any age bears certain identifying characteristics.In the true church of Jesus Christ you will find leaders who can trace their priesthood authority line directly back to the Lord Jesus Christ.You will find in His church the same officers ministering among men: namely, prophets, apostles, bishops, seventies, elders, priests, teachers, and deacons. The Church will be directed on earth by a prophet of God.The major mission of the Church is to “teach [the gospel to] all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” The same gifts of the Spirit which prevailed in the church at the time of Jesus are prevalent today. Some of these gifts are: revelation, healing, miracles, prophecy, and many others—as found in First Corinthians, twelfth chapter; Doctrine and Covenants, forty-sixth section; and in the tenth chapter of Moroni in the Book of Mormon. Charity—the pure love of Christ—will be in evidence among its membership.The same power which Jesus gave to His apostles that “whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven”  will also be in the true church today. There are ordinances and blessings bestowed by an authorized ministry to Church members. These covenants and obligations, if entered into and obeyed, apply not just for this life, but for all eternity.Every individual in the Lord’s church is entitled to the sure knowledge, received by personal revelation through the Holy Ghost, that the Church is true. Personal revelation to the individual is the strength of the church of Jesus Christ in any age.We must learn the truth for a surety and not merely suppose we are right. It is our responsibility to know—and by the aid of the scriptures and the Holy Ghost one can know without any doubt.One cannot prayerfully study the scriptures without gaining the knowledge and testimony that there is only one way to exaltation. The scriptures point the way very clearly. It must be God’s way and not man’s way, for God has said: “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.” As an authorized servant and special witness of Jesus Christ in this day, I humbly bear witness that the church of Jesus Christ is on the earth today. This Church bears all of the identifying marks I have mentioned. Presiding under the direction of Jesus Christ stands a living prophet. His name is Spencer W. Kimball, President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.We declare that the church of Jesus Christ has been restored in our time. His original church was lost to the earth by apostasy. Through Joseph Smith, the founding prophet called of God in this modern dispensation, new revelation has come forth from God that has restored the original doctrines and ordinances which belong to the church of Jesus Christ.Carrying the message of the Restoration to all nations who permit the restored church entrance, approximately 25,000 missionaries, elders and young women, are called to serve voluntarily, eighteen months for the young women, and two years for the young men.Our president, Spencer W. Kimball, has stated that our objective is to bring the gospel to all the world. “We invite all to heed the message of the Latter-day Saint missionaries. No message you will ever hear will have greater impact for good in your lives, both here in mortality and in the hereafter.“The rewards are priceless for those honest in heart who seek the truth.” ( May 1976, p. 7.)A powerful inducement to investigate the claim of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the consideration of your most precious possession—your family. We give promise to you that when you are obedient to specific ordinances performed in the sacred temples of God, your loved ones may be united together eternally. As you investigate our claim, you will discover how these blessings can come to you.We cannot secure the blessings God has promised without keeping His laws and His commandments. These we must learn and faithfully obey if we are to gain the celestial kingdom.I bear my solemn witness to you that there is one true shepherd—our Lord Jesus Christ—one faith, one baptism, and only one church of Christ. I urge all who listen to the voice of the Good Shepherd to investigate the message of His church today and gain a personal witness of its truthfulness. I humbly bear my testimony to the truthfulness of these things and beseech all of you to gain that personal witness, and do so in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.