My message is an appeal to those who are worried or restless or anxious, a plea to those who are not at peace. If your life is touched with disappointment, grief, or bitterness; if you struggle constantly with worry, frustration, with shame or anxiety, I speak to you.The Bible records that in ancient times there came from Gilead, beyond the Jordan, a substance used to heal and soothe [see  It came, perhaps, from a tree or shrub, and was a major commodity of trade in the ancient world. It was known as the Balm of Gilead [see  That name became symbolic for the power to soothe and heal.The lyrics of a song record:I recently asked a doctor of family medicine how much of his time was devoted purely to correcting physical disorders. He has a large practice, and after thoughtfully considering, he answered, “Not more than 20 percent. The rest of the time I seem to be working on problems that very much affect the physical well-being of my patients but do not originate in the body.“These physical disorders,” the doctor concluded, “are merely symptoms of some other kind of trouble.”In recent generations one after another of the major diseases has yielded to control or cure. Some very major ones still remain, but we now seem able to do something about most of them.There is another part of us, not so tangible, but quite as real as our physical body. This intangible part of us is described as mind, emotion, intellect, temperament, and many other things. Very seldom is it described as spiritual.But there is a  in man; to ignore it is to ignore reality. There are spiritual disorders, too, and spiritual diseases that can cause intense suffering.The body and the spirit of man are bound together. Often, very often, when there are disorders, it is very difficult to tell which is which.There are basic rules of physical health that have to do with rest, nourishment, exercise, and with abstaining from those things which damage the body. Those who violate the rules one day pay for their foolishness.There are also rules of spiritual health, simple rules that cannot be ignored, for if they are we will reap sorrow by and by.All of us experience some temporary physical sickness. All of us now and again may be spiritually ill as well. Too many of us, however, are chronically spiritually sick.We don’t need to stay that way. We can learn to avoid spiritual infections and maintain good spiritual health. Even though we have a serious physical ailment, we can be spiritually healthy.If you suffer from worry, from grief or shame, from jealousy, disappointment, or envy, I have something to tell you.Somewhere near your home there is a vacant corner lot. Although adjoining yards may be well tended, a vacant corner lot somehow is always full of weeds.There is a footpath across it, a bicycle trail, and ordinarily it is a collecting place for junk. First someone threw a few lawn clippings there. They would not hurt anything. Someone added a few sticks and limbs from a nearby yard. Then came a few papers and a plastic bag, and finally some tin cans and old bottles were included.And there it was—a junkyard.The neighbors did not intend it to be that. But little contributions from here and there made it so.This corner lot is like, so very much like, the minds of many of us. We leave our minds vacant and empty and open to trespass by anyone. Whatever is dumped there we keep.We would not consciously permit anyone to dump junk into our minds, not old cans and bottles. But after lawn clippings and papers, the other things just don’t seem all that much worse.Our minds can become veritable junk heaps with dirty, cast-off ideas that accumulate there little by little.Years ago I put up some signs in my mind. They are very clearly printed and simply read: “No trespassing.” “No dumping allowed.” On occasions it has been necessary to show them very plainly to others.I do not want anything coming into my mind that does not have some useful purpose or some value that makes it worth keeping. I have enough trouble keeping the weeds down that sprout there on their own without permitting someone else to clutter my mind with things that do not edify.I’ve hauled a few of these away in my lifetime. Occasionally I’ve tossed these thoughts back over the fence where they came from, when it could be done in a friendly manner.I’ve had to evict some thoughts a hundred times before they would stay out. I have never been successful until I have put something edifying in their place.I do not want my mind to be a dumping place for shabby ideas or thoughts, for disappointments, bitterness, envy, shame, hatred, worry, grief, or jealousy.If you are fretting over such things, it’s time to clean the yard. Get rid of all that junk! Get rid of it!Put up a “no trespassing” sign, a “no dumping” sign, and take control of yourself. Don’t keep anything that will not edify you.The first thing a doctor does with a wound is to clean it out. He gets rid of all foreign matter and drains off infection—however much it hurts.Once you do that spiritually, you will have a different perspective. You will have much less to worry about. It is easy to get all mixed up about worry.Somewhere there is a message in the protest of a man who said: “You can’t tell me worry doesn’t help. The things I worry about never happen.”Many years ago I was taught a lesson by a man I admired very much. He was as saintly a man as I have ever known. He was steady and serene, with a deep spiritual strength that many drew upon.He knew just how to minister to others who were suffering. On a number of occasions I was present when he gave blessings to those who were sick or otherwise afflicted.His life had been a life of service, both in the Church and in the community.He had presided over one of the missions of the Church and looked forward to the annual missionary reunion. When he was older he was not able to drive at night, and I offered to take him to the reunions.This modest gesture was repaid a thousandfold.On one occasion when we were alone and the spirit was right, he gave me a lesson for my life from an experience in his. Although I thought I had known him, he told me things I would not have supposed.He grew up in a little community. Somehow in his youth he had a desire to make something of himself and struggled successfully to get an education.He married a lovely young woman, and presently everything in his life was just right. He was well employed, with a bright future. They were deeply in love, and she was expecting their first child.The night the baby was to be born there were complications. The only doctor was somewhere in the countryside tending to the sick. They were not able to find him. After many hours of labor the condition of the mother-to-be became desperate.Finally the doctor arrived. He sensed the emergency, acted quickly, and soon had things in order. The baby was born and the crisis, it appeared, was over.Some days later the young mother died from the very infection that the doctor had been treating at the other home that night.My friend’s world was shattered. Everything was not right now; everything was all wrong. He had lost his wife, his sweetheart. He had no way to take care of a tiny baby and at once tend to his work.As the weeks wore on his grief festered. “That doctor should not be allowed to practice,” he would say. “He brought that infection to my wife; if he had been careful she would be alive today.” He thought of little else, and in his bitterness he became threatening.Then one night a knock came at his door. A little youngster said, simply, “Daddy wants you to come over. He wants to talk to you.”“Daddy” was the stake president. A grieving, heartbroken young man went to see his spiritual leader. This spiritual shepherd had been watching his flock and had something to say to him.The counsel from this wise servant was simply: “John, leave it alone. Nothing you do about it will bring her back. Anything you do will make it worse. John, leave it alone.”My friend told me then that this had been his trial, his Gethsemane.How could he leave it alone? Right was right! A terrible wrong had been committed, and somebody must pay for it.He struggled in agony to get hold of himself. It did not happen at once. Finally he determined that whatever else the issues were, he should be obedient.Obedience is a powerful spiritual medicine. It comes close to being a cure-all.He determined to follow the counsel of that wise spiritual leader. He would leave it alone.Then he told me, “I was an old man before I finally understood. It was not until I was an old man that I could finally see a poor country doctor—overworked, underpaid, run ragged from patient to patient, with little proper medicine, no hospital, few instruments. He struggled to save lives, and succeeded for the most part.“He had come in a moment of crisis when two lives hung in the balance and had acted without delay.“I was an old man,” he repeated, “before finally I understood. I would have ruined my life,” he said, “and the lives of others.”Many times he had thanked the Lord on his knees for a wise spiritual leader who counseled simply, “John, leave it alone.”And that is my counsel to you. If you have festering sores, a grudge, some bitterness, disappointment, or jealousy, get hold of yourself. You may not be able to control things out there with others, but you can control things here, inside of you.I say, therefore: John, leave it alone. Mary, leave it alone.You may need a transfusion of spiritual strength to be able to do this. Then just ask for it. We call that prayer. Prayer is powerful, spiritual medicine. The instructions for its use are found in the scriptures.One of our sacred hymns carries this message:All of us carry excess baggage around from time to time, but the wisest ones among us don’t carry it for very long. They get rid of it.Some of it you have to get rid of without really solving the problem. Some things that ought to be put in order are not put in order because you can’t control them.Often, however, the things we carry are petty, even stupid. If you are still upset after all these years because Aunt Clara didn’t come to your wedding reception, why don’t you grow up? Forget it.If you brood constantly over some past mistake, settle it—look ahead.If the bishop didn’t call you right—or release you right—forget it.If you resent someone for something he has done—or failed to do—forget it.We call that forgiveness. It is powerful, spiritual medicine. The instructions for its use are found in the scriptures.I repeat: John, leave it alone. Mary, leave it alone. Purge and cleanse and soothe your soul and your heart and your mind.It will then be as though a cloudy, dirty film has been erased from the world around you; and though the problem may remain, the sun will come out. The beam will have been lifted from your eyes. There will come a peace that surpasseth understanding.A great significant message of the gospel of Jesus Christ is exemplified by the title given to Him: the Prince of Peace. If we follow Him, we can have that individually and collectively.He has said: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.” If you, my brother or sister, are troubled, there is at hand, not just in Gilead, a soothing, healing balm.Consider this:“If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.“If ye love me, keep my commandments.“And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever;“Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.“I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.” I bear witness of Him who is the Great Comforter and as one authorized to bear that witness testify that He lives. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Of all of life’s memorable experiences, there are few to compare with the soul-stirring feeling we have as we hear a missionary express his joy and love for the Lord as he tells of bringing someone to the waters of baptism.President Kimball has requested that every worthy young man prepare himself to go on a mission. There still are vast areas of the world living in spiritual darkness and waiting for the true word of God. Even though we as a Church point with pride at the large number of missionaries serving in the world, many more missionaries are needed.A Church family in a city or a town anywhere in the world will bring another family into the Church. Soon missionaries are involved. A small branch develops, then wards and a stake. The process goes on and on in a miraculous way with local Saints and missionaries bringing the good tidings and new hope to people everywhere. The Church missionary force will continue to grow. The 25,000 young men now serving will become 35,000, then 50,000. No hand can stop the work.But it is sad and disappointing to see the names of young men in many wards not able to take advantage of the divine direction: “Send forth the elders of my church unto the nations; … the islands of the sea; … unto foreign lands; call upon all nations.”  Some of our choice young men have been caught up in the ways of a permissive society.My remarks this morning are directed to the young women of the Church, particularly those who are dating our young men. I desire to be appropriate and correct in what I say, but because of necessity and the urgency concerning this matter, I must be very direct and candid.Some young men cannot go on missions because they are not worthy.I challenge the young women of the Church who associate with and date our young priesthood bearers to become real guardians of their morality. You can. You must. Many of you are. Please do not underestimate your role. I am aware that the total responsibility is not yours. However, on a date you can set the proper atmosphere to encourage your companion to honor the commandments of God. In fact, you have the opportunity to emphasize the Mormon ideals of womanhood in all their honor and glory. I know the Lord expects it to be so.You young ladies have a profound influence on young, masculine behavior. Young men wear clothes they think you like. Their hair will be cut to please you. You can control how fast they drive their cars if you want. They will dress as grubby as you like. You need not dress in the extreme fashions of the world. Are you aware that fashions and styles are promoted because someone has a product to sell? The rightness or appropriateness or effect on a youthful society does not matter as long as it sells. But the day will come when the world will follow the ways of the Church. Its influence will be as though flowing from the stars to affect the actions of men. Your influence with young men is important. You encourage Church standards and dress and conduct.Interviews with some prospective missionaries regretfully indicate that some actions involving young women are most disappointing. Some are even ugly and are far, far different from what is expected of you. The Savior knew so well our weaknesses. He warned: “Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit … is willing, but the flesh is weak.” Young women, lift the tenor of your association with our young men now preparing to be worthy so their bishops will be impressed to call them on missions. The young man you are with in a car or at home is needed in the Lord’s work. Hundreds, even thousands more like him are needed—prepared in the Lord’s way.The young men you are dating are in training for missions and hold the priesthood. Bishops have found these young men worthy. Hands have been placed upon their heads. They have received the priesthood of God. Just think. The Lord has given them authority to preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize—a divine commission to act for and in behalf of the Lord Himself. The young man you may be with probably is a priest. He wants to be worthy to receive the higher priesthood and, if worthy, to someday have authority and keys of spiritual blessings. He is not “just another young man.” He is a very special young man. He is in training. He is going on a mission. You can be a great blessing to him. You, a young lady he admires, can help him avoid serious pitfalls.Young men—maturing, learning, and forming habits—have ideals and special persons they admire. You may be such a person. In a matter of months these young men will become missionaries and will be blessed so as to be able to teach investigators by the Spirit. The Lord said, “And the Spirit shall be given … by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach.”  Our missionaries teach and testify by the Spirit. But they must be in tune with the Lord. Hoping for the Spirit is not enough. Praying is not enough. Missionaries must do what the Lord requires: live the commandments, be clean, be wholesome in deed and thoughts. “The Lord hath said he dwelleth not in unholy temples.” “Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place?“He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart.”  The Psalmist is teaching the necessity of clean actions that comply with divine law—a pure heart, pure thoughts, a desire to live in harmony with the Lord and to love Him.While serving as a mission president I asked a missionary who was having difficulty developing the spirit of his calling to go for a drive. We drove far up into the hills. No one was near. After several hours he finally revealed the problem he had been hiding and his feeling of guilt. He was ashamed of what he had done. I listened. We talked it out. Then we watched a missionary virtually come to life with the spirit of his calling.Most missionary concerns are worthiness concerns, the product of their dating and social activities. The Lord’s instruction to “Go ye into all the world, and preach … to every creature”  involves us all—all who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ. All members of His Church—the old, the young—everyone is involved. Young men at an appropriate age are called by the prophet to leave home and go out in the world. Others serve and spread the gospel at home. Some give financial support. But every member is obligated to be part of the Lord’s plan to spread and share the gospel. You young women have a vital role in this preparation and pretraining of our young men. If you live worthily and develop a strong, positive self-image of your divine role of joint-inheritor of the fulness of all things, you will be a blessing to the young men who may come under your influence.In an article in the October 1977  entitled “Treat Everyone As If He Were a Mormon” (pp. 42–43), a group of young people talk about their sense of duty, their excitement, and their ideas concerning sharing the gospel. One of the questions directed to the young ladies was, “Girls, what’s your obligation?”Wanda replied: “Every member is supposed to be a missionary. I have lots of friends who have questions about the Church, and I can probably answer many of them. We should try to do all we can.”Beverly replied: “I think we can also help by encouraging the boys to go on missions. … I think we can encourage them … in the little things that we do. … It is in the … example that we set for them, that we can help the most.”You young ladies must set the proper example. Help our young men stay morally clean that they might be worthy and spiritually prepared to serve the Lord. You young women also have a duty to serve the Lord, to honor womanhood according to the Church beliefs and not the world’s. One of your most important obligations is to be and remain clean and pure. When you are clean and pure, the young men you date will be clean and pure. If a young man makes inappropriate advances, you have a sacred obligation to say, “No. I do not do that. Please don’t ask me or try to entice me to submit to conduct that is offensive to the Lord.”You, a daughter of Zion, can be a shining light as you set the right example. Refrain from early dating or going steady. Avoid at all cost the familiarity trap. Instead of spending time in a lovers’ lane, why not develop your minds and your personalities? You both have talents to develop and to share.Read good books. Listen to good music. Study and discuss the blessings contained in the Word of Wisdom.Read the scriptures—in them  the greatest story ever told.Young couples on dates know in advance what “too much time together” or “too late at night” can lead to. Avoid such dangers. There is a lurking power of emotion that can override intellect. Moral strength is a great virtue developed through desire and self-discipline.Nearly 200 years ago the British statesman Edmund Burke wrote: “Tell me what are the prevailing sentiments that occupy the minds of your young men, and I will tell you what is to be the character of the next generation.” (In Emerson Roy West,  Bookcraft, 1948, p. 427.)Somehow, my dear young friends, we will stem the tide of untruth and immorality that is sweeping the earth. It will be accomplished by you, the youth of the Church, through your faith and strength. Don’t be discouraged at seemingly overwhelming odds in your desire to live and to help others live God’s commandments. At times it may seem like David trying to fight Goliath. But remember, David did win.As we reflect on life’s real goal, what should our desire be? The Lord, in a rather personal revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1829 to John Whitmer, said, “The thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me.” President Kimball has asked not only for more missionaries but that they arrive in the field better prepared and with a desire to go and serve. The Lord said, “If ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work.” Missionaries are expected to serve “with all [their] heart[s], might, mind[s] and strength.”  Wouldn’t it be a great source of satisfaction to you young women to know that you have helped a young man visualize the majesty of his call and have encouraged him to become an outstanding modern missionary. Many of our young men are. We need them all to be that kind of missionary. The Lord has said, “The field is … already to harvest; … he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, … bringeth salvation to his soul.”  President Vaughn Featherstone of the Texas San Antonio Mission remarked: “Let’s not use a sickle. Let’s use a combine.”President Kimball has said, “If there were no converts the Church would shrivel and die.” (“It Becometh Every Man,” Oct. 1977, p. 3.) You young women have a vital role in converting the world to the gospel of Jesus Christ. You can encourage, influence, and even shield a young man at a critical time in his life. The Lord holds to this promise: “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard … the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.”  You demonstrate your love for the Lord when you help a young man remain worthy and prepared to serve the Lord.In Maxwell Anderson’s play about the youthful Joan of Arc, she says, “Every woman gives her life for what she believes. Sometimes people believe in little or nothing, nevertheless, they give up their lives to that little or nothing. One life is all we have, and we live it as we believe in living it, and then it’s gone. But to surrender what you are, and live without belief—that’s more terrible than dying—more terrible than dying young.” (Maxwell Anderson, “Joan of Lorraine,” New York: Dramatists’ Play Service, 1945, act 2, scene 4.)Let there radiate from you young women a spirit and influence that will have the power to cause “a mighty change”  when needed in the hearts of our young men. May there come forth through your efforts generations of young men in the Church who have spiritually been born of God, who reflect his Spirit in their countenances. You possess a divine key given by the Creator to lock or unlock, destroy or bless, that can make young men become as great as they ought to be.God’s work cannot fail. His work and purpose will succeed. In the end righteousness must and will prevail. I challenge you, the young women of the Church, to fulfill your duty to assist in presenting to President Kimball and the Lord young men who are worthy to testify of Christ and the restoration of His gospel. To this truth I testify in the holy name of Jesus Christ. Amen.