My dear brothers and sisters, I do not remember ever hearing such a splendid period of instruction in welfare work and welfare principles. We have heard the prophet of God emphasize the importance of this great work and encourage each and every one of us to become fully engaged in the programs. We have heard his call and must respond wholeheartedly. President Romney, the great authority on welfare and chairman of the Church Welfare Committee, has spoken to us and instructed all of us in our duties.The General Welfare Committee of the Church is made up of the First Presidency of the Church, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Presiding Bishopric, and the presidency of the General Board of the Relief Society, and the secretary, Quinn Gardner—all of whom have been represented here this morning and have contributed greatly. I only hope that I have adequately caught the spirit of this session and may add something of value.As President Kimball referred to the origins of the modern-day effort in welfare, my thoughts turned to the story of the Good Samaritan, as recorded in the tenth chapter of Luke. In this story the Savior taught perhaps his most stirring lesson on welfare in the meridian of time. I would like to read this incident and then trace with you its relevance to our present Welfare Services efforts.“And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?“He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?“And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.“And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.“But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?“And Jesus answering said, a certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.“And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.“And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.“But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,“And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.“And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.“Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?“And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.” How changed a world this would be if we were all to follow so fine an example of pure Christian love! Let us examine what really took place here.First, the Samaritan “had compassion.” He had the urge to help, for he felt sympathetic to the wounded man’s problem. This kindly affection is brought forth in the heart of anyone who has been touched by the Spirit of the Lord. These empathetic feelings should be felt by each of us toward one another. Indeed, the Savior said that covenant Israel should be known and distinguished by the love they show one for the other. (See Second, the Samaritan “went to him.” He did not wait to be approached by the one in need, but rather perceived the need and stepped forth without being asked to do so. In that great hymn “A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief” ( no. 153), so loved by the Prophet Joseph, we sense that the high reward promised by the Savior came not just because acts of kindness were performed, but also because they were done spontaneously, consistently, and selflessly.Third, the Samaritan “bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine.” He provided medical attention and refreshed the sufferer’s thirst. This immediate relief may well have saved the man’s life.Fourth, the Samaritan “set him on his own beast”—that is, he provided transportation and “brought him to an inn,” a place of rest and care. By providing this appropriate accommodation he ensured the proper conditions for healing to take place.Fifth, the Samaritan “took care of him.” Notice that during the critical stages of healing, the Samaritan did not turn the care of the wounded man over to others, but sacrificed of his own time and energy to perform this healing service  In a time when it is so easy to leave things to someone else, it is important to have so powerful an example as this good Samaritan.Sixth, the Samaritan “on the morrow … took out two pence, and gave them to the host.” He took of his own money, not someone else’s, and paid for the services he could not render himself. He thus consecrated of his means for the care of the poor and the needy [see Seventh, the Samaritan, needing to continue earning his own living, told the innkeeper to “take care of him.” In this way he enlisted to help and to continue the care.Eighth, the Samaritan then promised that “whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.” Here the ultimate in compassion is shown! He puts no limit on the extent to which he will help. And, perhaps even more significant, he does not drop it there and forget it, but commits himself to return and ensure that all that could be done has been done.This seems to be the consummate story of service. Inherent in it we find many if not all of the elements of our modern welfare plan. And while we as individuals cannot always fulfill these eight steps of relief by ourselves, we can, through the welfare system, accomplish all of this:
	
       The Lord expressly lays this charge on the bishops in the Eighty-fourth Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. (See 
	
       as priesthood and Relief Society officers; as visiting and home teachers; as friends, parents, and loved ones.
	
       as well as make ourselves available as resource persons. This is usually done through the Ward Welfare Services Committee spoken of earlier.And finally,  This is achieved when the individual in need can once again fully care for himself. It must be emphasized that we do not rely on some outside agency to show the compassion or perform the labor that we have covenanted to do.My brothers and sisters, the work of this Church is moving forward as perhaps never before. May each of us give of ourselves wherever we can in the building of this kingdom and be fully self-reliant and compassionate; and then, as appropriate, help others help themselves in this great Welfare Services work and maintain their dignity and self-respect.I leave with you my testimony of the truthfulness of this most important work. It is the work of the Lord. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.In Proverbs we read of a woman who is the embodiment of the ideal wife, mother, provident homemaker, and compassionate woman. The essence of my message is contained in one of the passages which describes her:“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.” A fundamental doctrine of the gospel, a basic value in Welfare Services, and a response that has become traditional for both Welfare Services and Relief Society is the principle of The women of the Church are no strangers to service; for Relief Society was born amid hardship, persecution and sacrifice in a time that called forth the greatest compassion, succor, and service women could give.From those days in Nauvoo to the present, the records are filled with the activities of women as they have brought relief to the distressed, aid to the poor and needy, ministrations to the sick, and comfort to those that mourn.Service of Latter-day Saint women continues to be in demand now as never before, both in the welfare program of our rapidly growing Church and in a society filled with problems which increasingly compound. The welfare work of the Church is based upon voluntary service, a great amount of which must be performed by women.Women’s first responsibility for service is to their families, for this is the fundamental priority established by the Lord. It must he their first consideration, and that of all those who call them to positions or seek their assistance in any endeavor; for the building of strong families is fundamental to a strong society.Service in the Church most often should be a woman’s next priority, with service in the community being a third consideration.Ranking first in the realm of Church service is the official calling, which is the formal request made by one having the proper priesthood authority after prayerfully taking into account family situations and other personal circumstances. The call is to a particular position, such as an officer, teacher, visiting teacher, or missionary. It would be expected that this service would continue for some time.Besides the official calling there is an official assignment, which covers a whole gamut of service opportunities in the Church.Before giving an official assignment, a priesthood or Relief Society leader should take into consideration family responsibilities and Church callings. An official request might be made by a ward Relief Society president to an individual woman for compassionate service to meet a specific need of another person.I recently heard of a ward in which there were seventy sisters over seventy years of age. Their wise Relief Society president felt that even those who were homebound could serve, and so she gave each of the seventy sisters either a visiting teaching assignment or a compassionate service assignment. Even a sister stricken with a terminal disease was assigned to write a monthly letter to each of three sisters who were homebound. Some sisters were assigned to call other sisters each day to make sure they were all right.One sister continued to serve as a visiting teacher supervisor when she was ill and homebound. Her Relief Society president reported that, with much effort, this sister put on one of her prettiest dresses before doing the telephoning each month, feeling that this act gave her service importance and dignity as she filled this assignment for the Lord.Within the official assignment category would be service on a Deseret Industries committee, or as a Home Craft Committee chairman, or service in a welfare canning project. Included would also be service to LDS Social Services, where a woman might be assigned to aid a case worker, provide a foster home, or assist with the Indian Student Placement Program.A woman may consider that she has been given an official assignment in Relief Society when she is asked to serve as chairman of the Relief Society Homemaking Day luncheon, to sew a welfare clothing item, or to assist at the time of illness or death. These assignments are for specific tasks, but they do not appoint one to a continuing position in the Church. Official assignments would usually be for a shorter duration than a calling, and might be a one-time task or duty.Another area of service within the general context of Church service is that of individual compassionate service on a spontaneous, personal basis. It is the kind of watchful care that each woman is expected to give to a neighbor in need.In the Welfare Meeting of 1975 and in the Welfare Services Handbook, we suggested that wards keep a current resource file indicating the talents and the abilities of the sisters as well as their needs and wants. Those records should include the areas of expertise and availability of sisters for service. (Welfare Services Meeting, April 5, 1975, p. 13).A third broad category of service for those who have the time, ability, and energy beyond that needed for family and Church responsibilities is voluntary community service. Voluntary community service should be freely given within an area of a particular interest or expertise, when circumstances permit.Within this classification lie limitless possibilities of service for women in worthy community causes, civic betterment efforts or in innumerable ways as concerned citizens.The Prophet Joseph Smith seemed particularly insightful, not only concerning his day and times, but ours as well, when he admonished women in the founding period of the Relief Society “to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community.” (Minutes of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, p. 7.)There is a reservoir of talented women who are not overburdened with family obligations or with Church callings who can give of their time to rewarding voluntary service—service that can be the means of improving society, or lifting the level of community morality—and at the same time underscore the welfare principle of service. This is their opportunity to broaden their scope of service—not only to their “own,” but to their non-Church neighbors as well.Through the scriptures we are admonished by the Lord to be “anxiously engaged in a good cause.”  Almost every woman can find appropriate ways of serving in good causes. A mother with a family of school-age children may feel the best way to serve her community is by becoming involved in the improvement of the schools her children attend or by making her family aware of good causes in the community and appropriate ways in which they can become involved, such as in the president’s National Family Week.Only when a woman understands the importance and the enrichment of service and evaluates her opportunities—neither making excuses to avoid service nor overextending herself unwisely—can she enjoy the promised blessings of service as she follows the example of the “virtuous woman,” as “she stretcheth out her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.”It is my prayer that women may, with discernment, minister to the poor and needy—even to the poor in spirit—and serve them well, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.