It has been a glorious privilege and blessing to spend over seven years of my life as a servant of the Lord in the British Isles and Ireland. These countries of my ancestors are beautiful, and we feel at home and love the people.President Kimball, the Latter-day Saints in the British Isles, Ireland, Rhodesia, and South Africa love, support, and sustain you as the Lord’s living prophet; and they also love and sustain the Lord’s living apostles.The Lord’s church is the only church that is required to have a living prophet and a quorum of twelve living apostles.The Latter-day Saints in Rhodesia and South Africa with their racial and equal rights problems desire that the will of the Lord be done in their lives and in their countries, and some of the Lord’s finest Saints live in these countries.We are living in perilous, restless, uncertain times in the world and this is true in the British Isles. Many of the Christian churches are closing down some of their church buildings because the people will not support them. While this is taking place, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints continues to grow and the number of those participating in the Church programs is increasing. I would like to briefly mention several statistics regarding the growth and progress of the Savior’s church in the British Isles.In the year 1960 we had one mission serving 55 million people in England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland with approximately 180 full-time missionaries.In the early part of 1960 there were no stakes of the Church, and today we have 27 fully organized stakes and 5 more areas ready to be considered for stakehood. We also have 12 districts that are preparing to become stakes. In 1960 we had 11,000 members. Today, we have over 100,000 members. In 1960 there were no Church buildings adequate to serve the needs of a ward. Today, we have 175 beautiful chapels and 47 more under construction or in preliminary preparation for construction. There are in the British Isles 376 units of the Church including missions, stakes, districts, wards, branches, and other Church programs.There are millions of the Lord’s covenant children in the British Isles that are waiting for the Lord’s missionaries and Latter-day Saints to reach and teach them the sacred principles and ordinances of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ as it is recorded in the holy scriptures. We are just scratching the surface of what needs to be done in these countries.Many of the Christian churches in the British Isles do not consider or recognize The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as a Christian church.The following statement was printed in the “Are the Mormons Christians? Certainly they claim to be followers of Christ and hence entitled to take their place alongside other denominations as another Christian church. …“In fact, there is good reason for regarding them as a new religion rather than as another variety of Christianity. The Christ they follow is both the Christian Messiah of the New Testament, and the Risen Christ who visited the New World after the end of His ministry in the old one. Traditional Christianity—Roman Catholic [and] Protestant … —rejects the very existence of this Christ who reappeared on earth after the Ascension, and so the Christ followed by the Mormons is not the Christ followed by traditional Christianity.” (“Alcohol, tea, and smoking banned,”  June 18, 1976, special supplement on Mormons, p. II.)It is true that many of the Christian churches worship a different Jesus Christ than is worshipped by the Mormons or The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. For example, from the Church of England’s Articles of Religion, article one, I quote: “There is but one living God, everlasting, without body, parts, or passions.”The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints worships a God and a Jesus Christ with bodies, with parts, and with passions. We also believe that the trinity of the Godhead is made up of three separate personages—God, the Eternal Father; Jesus Christ, the Son of God—our Savior; and the Holy Ghost. These two concepts of the Trinity and their attributes are completely different.The Jesus Christ of the holy scriptures has a body of flesh and bones and passions before and after his resurrection.After his resurrection the Savior visited his apostles and said unto them: “Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.“And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet.” Jesus warned man to beware of false Christs with these words: “Take heed that no man deceive you.“For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. …“For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.” In the first commandment of the Ten Commandments, the Lord commanded man to worship the living God of the scriptures and not to create and worship man-conceived Deities. He said: “Thou shalt have no other gods before me.“Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:“Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them.”  Many continue to bow down to man-made images.When the Savior lived on this earth he condemned the powerful Pharisee religion that professed to believe in the prophets and the scriptures but would not accept the living Jesus Christ. The Pharisees promised their disciples salvation in the kingdom of heaven, but because they would not accept the living Christ with a body of flesh, bones, and passions, Jesus denounced them saying: “Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in.” In latter-day revelation, the Lord again warned man not to be misled and deceived by religions that were organized without divine authority by men, by thrones, or by principalities that promise their disciples salvation in the kingdom of heaven.He said: “I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment—that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law. …“And everything that is in the world, whether it be ordained of men, by thrones, or principalities, or powers, or things of name, whatsoever they may be, that are not by me or by my word, saith the Lord, shall be thrown down, and shall not remain after men are dead, neither in nor after the resurrection, saith the Lord your God.“For whatsoever things remain are by me; and whatsoever things are not by me shall be shaken and destroyed.” There is only one way provided by the Lord for man to gain salvation and eternal life in the kingdom of God and that is by and through the living, personal Jesus Christ, and by knowing and living his commandments. We cannot obtain salvation and eternal life by worshipping fake Christs or by living the doctrines and commandments of men.The Pharisees with their man-made doctrines and traditions were again condemned by the Savior. He said unto them: “This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me.“… In vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.” The belief that God has no body, parts, and passions is not a doctrine of Jesus Christ or a doctrine of the holy scriptures but is a doctrine of men, and to worship such a God is in vain.From the time when the Lord created man in his own image and likeness, men have created false gods to worship, such as golden calves, sculptured images, etc.; and billions through the centuries including the very elect have been deceived and misled.The sacred purpose of eternal life is to know the only true God and Jesus Christ. “This is life eternal,” Jesus said, “that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.” The message of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the people of the world is that God the Eternal Father and Jesus Christ live, that they are personages with immortal bodies of flesh and bones and passions, and that all mankind are children of God and are created in his image and likeness, and that Jesus Christ through his Prophet Joseph Smith restored his church with all of his doctrines, commandments, and ordinances as recorded in all of his holy scriptures.I bear witness that Jesus Christ lives and that he will soon be returning to this earth in his majesty and glory, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Not long ago I attended a stake conference that was not far away, and by hurrying I was able to get home early enough on Sunday afternoon to have the privilege of attending the sacrament service in our own home ward. Throughout the Church all around the world, thousands and thousands of families attend sacrament meeting on the day of rest—the Lord’s day—most of them led by the priesthood bearer of the home, whose responsibility it is to guide the family in keeping the commandments of God. The Lord said, “And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day.” It was interesting to watch people going to the chapel, some walking down the street, others coming by automobiles and turning into the parking lot. From all around they were gathering—men, women, youth, and children. Many were coming as families.Families usually consist of a father, mother, and children, but this is not always the case. Sometimes there is not a mother or a father, and sometimes no children. Often there is one person living alone. In years gone by, our family was larger, but now it consists of only two.When we entered the chapel, Bishop Salisbury, in his usual gracious manner, greeted us with a warm handclasp. As we went down the aisle, Brother Doxey, our home teacher, nodded a greeting and we responded similarly—an affectionate greeting in the spirit of a handshake except that distance separated us. And there was Brother Jensen, who was formerly our home teacher, sitting with his wife and daughters. We could also see Sister Nielsen and Sister Whitney, the lovely Relief Society visiting teachers who come to our home and bring a ray of spiritual sunshine to cheer up Sister Hunter. A couple moved over and let us sit by them, and someone on the row behind touched us on the shoulder and whispered that they were glad to see us.We were among friends. We were among more than friends—we were with both brothers and sisters—literally. The organ was being played softly, and there were a few moments of quiet meditation before the big hand of the clock in the chapel was at the highest point, indicating the time of commencement of a sacred hour.One of the counselors to the bishop, in a dignified but friendly manner, came to the pulpit and gave a word of greeting and announced the name of the hymn we were to sing.The priests sat quietly at the sacrament table. I looked at each of them—well-groomed, reverent, serious. Many young men of their age were spending the day in recreation or sports, but they had come to the house of the Lord. Seated in front of them was a row of deacons. They, too, were well groomed and well behaved, taking seriously the responsibility of their first office in the Aaronic Priesthood.As I looked at these priests and deacons, there came a realization that they were from good homes with parents who loved them and who taught them to keep the commandments of the Lord. Then came thoughts of others who have an interest in them: their bishop and his counselors, home teachers, priesthood leaders and teachers, those who are helping them in the Sunday School and the young men’s organization, Scouting and Exploring leaders, and an array of persons who are giving their time and effort to teach and encourage them in their young years.The time will not be long, I thought, until these priests and deacons will be in the mission field to fulfill the commandment given to all faithful elders in the Church: “Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature, acting in the authority which I have given you, baptizing in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” After a hymn and prayer, and while the priests were preparing the sacrament, we were led in singing:A priest kneeled over the broken bread and prayed: “That they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments.”  The deacons dispersed throughout the chapel to serve the broken bread. One of them came to our row and held the silver tray while I partook. Then I held the tray so Sister Hunter could partake, and she held it for the person next to her. Thus the tray went down the row, each serving and being served.I thought of the events that took place on the evening nearly two thousand years ago when Jesus was betrayed. He had sent Peter and John into Jerusalem to make ready the Passover. This included, as was the custom, the sacrifice of a lamb. The laws of sacrifice had been followed down through the centuries since commenced by Father Adam, looking toward the time when the Savior would make the great sacrifice for mankind by the shedding of His own blood and death on the cross.After the Master and the Twelve had partaken of the feast of the Passover on that occasion, “Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.“And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it.“And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many.” Thus was the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper introduced to replace sacrifice and be a reminder to all those who partake that He truly made a sacrifice for them; and to be an additional reminder of the covenants they have made to follow Him, keep His commandments, and be faithful to the end.While thinking about this, the admonition of Paul in his letter to the church in Corinth came to my mind. He said: “Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.“But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.“For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.” I was troubled. I asked myself this question: “Do I place God above all other things and keep all of His commandments?” Then came reflection and resolution. To make a covenant with the Lord to always keep His commandments is a serious obligation, and to renew that covenant by partaking of the sacrament is equally serious. The solemn moments of thought while the sacrament is being served have great significance. They are moments of self-examination, introspection, self-discernment—a time to reflect and to resolve.By this time the other priest was kneeling at the table, praying that all who should drink “may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed for them; … that they do always remember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them.” There was quiet meditation, the silence broken only by the voice of a tiny babe whose mother quickly held him close. Anything that breaks the silence during this sacred ordinance seems out of place; but surely the sound of a little one would not displease the Lord. He, too, had been cradled by a loving mother at the beginning of a mortal life that commenced in Bethlehem and ended on the cross of Calvary.The young men concluded serving the sacrament. Then followed words of encouragement and instruction, a closing hymn and prayer; and the sacred moments “unmarred by earthly care” had come to a close. On the way home we saw several boys playing ball in the street and a family returning in their motor home from a weekend in the mountains. This thought came to my mind: What a wonderful thing it would be if all persons had an understanding of the purpose of baptism and the willingness to accept of it; the desire to keep the covenants made in that ordinance to serve the Lord and live His commandments; and, in addition, the desire to partake of the sacrament on the Sabbath day to renew those covenants to serve Him and be faithful to the end.In speaking of the covenants one makes when he partakes of the sacrament, a former president of the Church once stated: “Who can measure the responsibility of such a covenant? How far reaching! How comprehensive! It excludes from man’s life, profanity, vulgarity, idleness, enmity, jealousy, drunkenness, dishonesty, hatred, selfishness, and every form of vice. It obligates him to sobriety, to industry, to kindness, to the performance of every duty in church and state. He binds himself to respect his fellowmen, to honor the Priesthood, to pay his tithes and offerings and to consecrate his life to the service of humanity.” (David O. McKay,  85:778.)Having attended sacrament meeting and partaken of the sacrament made the day more meaningful, and I felt that I better understood the reason why the Lord said, “And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High.” I know that Jesus is the Christ and that He lives, having been put to death as the atoning sacrifice and resurrected that all men may live again and have eternal life. I pray that we may faithfully follow Him, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.