The theme I have chosen for these remarks I have taken from a jingle we used to sing in the army back in 1918 when things looked gloomy. It began:This I have done because although there is presently a widespread foreboding of difficult times ahead, I am persuaded that there is “a silver lining” to our predicament and that “behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own.” (“The Present Crisis,” James Russell Lowell.)Typical of the widespread concern is the statement made some time ago by the Secretary-General of the United Nations:“I do not wish to conceal,” he said, “my profound concern about the situation which now prevails in the world, a concern which I know to be shared by responsible people everywhere. There is an almost universal sense of apprehension about where the tumultuous developments of our time may take us, a sense of deep anxiety at phenomena which we do not fully understand, let alone control. In all the speculation, much of it depressing, about the shape of the future, there recurs a note of helplessness and fatalism which I find deeply disturbing. This is not a new phenomenon. Dire prophecies have often before been the symptoms of periods of transition and change in human society. What  new is the scope and scale of the problems which give rise to these apprehensions. …“Today the civilization which is facing such a challenge is  just one small part of mankind—it is mankind as a whole.” (Kurt Waldheim, address, August 30, 1974; italics added.)Another ominous reminder of the gathering gloom is found in a recent press release concerning a new book titled  which “pictures humanity on the edge of an abyss of scarcity that appears bottomless.” (Mr. and Mrs. Paul Erlich, Stanford University News Service, December 17, 1974.)These forecasts are discomfiting. They come as no surprise, however, to Latter-day Saints, because we know that nearly a hundred and fifty years ago the Lord said that the conduct of the inhabitants of the earth, unless reformed, would bring disaster. He diagnosed its cause, predicted its coming, and prescribed the means by which it can be avoided.The inhabitants of the earth, He said—explaining the cause of the impending disaster—“have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God. …“Wherefore,” He continued, “I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;“And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world.” The Lord is here referring to communications which had taken place between Him and Joseph Smith during the previous eleven years, which began with a personal appearance of God the Father and Jesus Christ, His Son, to Joseph Smith. In these communications—revelations, they were—God had declared that the spirits of all men are His literal offspring; He explained that the earth was created at His instance to be the dwelling place upon which we, His spirit sons and daughters, were to be proven to see if we would do what He, our Father and God, commands us.He knew from widespread experience how we would have to conduct ourselves in order to avoid the calamities which have repeatedly vexed and devastated the inhabitants of the earth.So knowing, He instructed the first generation of men, beginning with Adam, and He has instructed every succeeding generation on how to live in order to persist and prosper. He has told them that if they would follow His directions, they would be blessed and flourish upon the earth. At the same time He has warned that if they persisted in disregarding His directions, they would bring upon themselves calamities and disaster.These directions and warnings have not been the arbitrary edicts of a vindictive tyrant. They are the teachings, counsels, and pleadings of a solicitous, loving Heavenly Father. They prescribe the one and only means to peace and happiness in this earth. They declare irrevocable law, compliance with which is indispensable to peace and progress: the earth itself responds to man’s obedience or disobedience to the teachings of God, who made the earth.Obedience invokes “peaceful and beneficient cooperation of the elements.”Disobedience “may” and repeatedly has produced “calamity in the form of destructive phenomena.”Total disobedience in the days of Noah “brought about the Deluge.” (Dr. James E. Talmage,  June 1921, p. 738.)Let us consider some of God’s basic instructions which, if obeyed, bring peace and prosperity.The first commandment He gave to Adam and Eve after they left the garden of Eden was “that they should worship the Lord their God.”  The significance of this commandment underlies all the rest of His commandments. Note how the Lord has repeatedly emphasized this need:“I am the Lord thy God …“Thou shalt have no other gods before me.“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.” To the lawyer who asked, “Master, which is the great commandment in the law?“Jesus said, … Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.” The Lord was alluding to these commandments when He said to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning this generation: “They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world.” These commandments, with others, together with blessings promised to follow observance thereof, were thus emphasized in the commandments given to Joseph Smith for our instruction in this dispensation.“Thou shalt not lie.” “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it.“Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.“And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, …“The fulness of the earth is yours.“[And you will] learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.” Do you think this generation merits this reward by reason of having observed these commandments? Following are samples of what the Lord has said we merit and shall receive if we, refusing to repent, hold to our present course of wickedness:“A desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out from time to time, if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming.“Behold, I tell you these things,” said the Savior, in this dispensation, “even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.” In the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives us this counsel and prediction: “Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes.“For not many days hence and the earth shall tremble and reel to and fro as a drunken man; and the sun shall hide his face, and shall refuse to give light; and the moon shall be bathed in blood; and the stars shall become exceedingly angry, and shall cast themselves down as a fig that falleth from off a fig-tree.” Now all the acts of governments, all the armies of the nations, all the learning and the wisdom of man together cannot turn these calamities aside. The only way they can be averted is for men to accept and conform to the way of life revealed by God our Heavenly Father. Calamities will come as a matter of cause and effect. They follow naturally “and inevitably the sins of mankind and the unregenerate state of the race.” (Talmage,  June 1921, p. 739.)And let it not be supposed, now, that the Lord takes pleasure in these calamities. He does not. He graphically foretells the inevitable consequences of men’s sins for the purpose of inducing them to repent and thereby avoid the calamities.And now, in conclusion, let us consider for a moment the silver lining spoken of.As the Lord has repeatedly warned that breaking His commandments would bring on calamity, so has He promised that observance of His commandments would avert calamity and bring blessings.As disobedience brought on the flood, so obedience sanctified Enoch’s Zion.“And the Lord blessed the land, and they … did flourish.“And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness.” As in ancient America the rebellious were destroyed by earthquake, whirlwind, and fire at the time of Christ’s crucifixion, so the righteous survivors developed a society which enjoyed perfect peace for several hundred years. (See Through Malachi the Lord promised “Israel that by faithfulness the seasons should be made propitious, that nurturing rains should come, bringing such harvests that the people would lack room to store their products.” (Talmage,  June 1921, p. 738; see  Like assurances have been given in these latter days.Nephi, envisioning and speaking of our day, said that God “will preserve the righteous by his power, … even unto the destruction of their enemies by fire. Wherefore, the righteous need not fear.” Speaking to His apostles concerning our day, Jesus said: “They shall see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land.“But my disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die.“And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another. …“When … the Lord had spoken these words,” as he stood with His apostles, “they were troubled.”“[But He] said unto them: Be not troubled, for, when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled.” “I am no respecter of persons,” He said, “and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. “And also [and here is ] the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst.” That we shall in full faith, relying upon these assurances, so keep the commandments that we shall be sustained by the knowledge that “behind the dim unknown, Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above his own” would be my fervent hope.Now, my brothers and sisters, I bear you my witness that I know these things are true; that we are the children of God our Father; that He sent us here; that our actions determine what will occur according to His statements to us in the plain and simple words that He has spoken. I know that we can have peace in the world if we will repent and follow the commandments of the Lord. I know that calamity will follow if we do not. And I plead for God to be with us that we may merit peace and security, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.President Brigham Young, the second president of this dispensation, said: “It is supposed by this people that we have all the ordinances in our possession for life and salvation, and exaltation, and that we are administering in those ordinances. This is not the case. We are in possession of all the ordinances that can be administered in the flesh; but there are other ordinances and administrations that must be administered beyond this world. I know you would like to ask what they are. I will mention one. We have not, neither can we receive here, the ordinance and the keys of resurrection.” ( 15:137.)Do we have the keys of resurrection? Could you return to the earth as ones who would never again die—your own parents, your grandparents, your ancestors? I buried my mother when I was eleven, my father when I was in my early twenties. I have missed my parents much. If I had the power of resurrection as did the Savior of the world, I would have been tempted to try to have kept them longer. I have been called to speak in numerous funerals for people whom I have known, people whom I have loved, and people whom I have saved and held on to in a limited way. We do not know of anyone who can resurrect the dead as did Jesus the Christ when he came back to mortality.“[The keys] will be given to those who have passed off this stage of action and have received their bodies again. … They will be ordained, by those who hold the keys of the resurrection, to go forth and resurrect the Saints, just as we receive the ordinance of baptism then receive the keys of authority to baptize others for the remission of their sins. This is one of the ordinances we can not receive here [on the earth], and there are many more.” ( 15:137.)We remember when the Lord Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship and was sleeping on a pillow, and his disciples awakened him and said unto him, “Master, carest thou not that we perish?“And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. …“And they … said [to themselves], What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?” Perhaps there is something else that we will learn as we perfect our bodies and our spirits in the times to come. You and I—what helpless creatures are we! Such limited power we have, and how little can we control the wind and the waves and the storms! We remember the numerous scriptures which, concentrated in a single line, were said by a former prophet, Lorenzo Snow: “As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become.” This is a power available to us as we reach perfection and receive the experience and power to create, to organize, to control native elements. How limited we are now! We have no power to force the grass to grow, the plants to emerge, the seeds to develop.“We have no such ordinance here,” said Brigham Young. “We organize according to men in the flesh. By combining the elements and planting the seed, we cause vegetables, trees, grains, etc. to come forth.” But we do not give them life. “We are organizing a kingdom here according to the pattern that the Lord has given for people in the flesh, but not for those who have received the resurrection, although it is a similitude.” ( 15:137.)Millions of us have contributed toward the creation and the development of a spirit, but “the germ of this, God has placed within us. And when our spirits receive our bodies, and through our faithfulness we are worthy to be crowned, we will then receive authority to produce both spirit and body. But these keys we cannot receive in the flesh.” ( 15:137.) Again, the powers of heavens.Here is another man, Abraham, a mortal creature and the ancestor of Moses, who “talked with the Lord, face to face, as one man talketh with another.” The Lord said: “My son, my son, … I will show you all these. … I saw those things which his hands had made … they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof.” The Lord showed Abraham the constellations, the worlds as numerous as the sands of the sea; and the Lord said, “Abraham, I show these things unto thee before ye go into Egypt, that ye may declare all these words.”  And then came a succession of creations and planets and worlds which had no end.The Lord had sent his angel to deliver Abraham from the hands of an assassin who would have taken his life on the altar. The Lord would show him the things which he did not know, “for,” said he, “I rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath, in all wisdom and prudence, over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen from the beginning; I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen.” And then he opens a new world to the prophet Abraham. The Lord had shown to Abraham “the intelligences that were organized before the world was [created]; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;“And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.“And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell.”And then he continued with these promises: “And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;“And they who keep their first estate [that is, their spiritual life] shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate [and that is the mortal life] shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever” if they keep their estate; if they keep the commandments; if they do all things whatsoever the Lord God has commanded them.God has taken these intelligences, given to them spirit bodies, and given them instructions and training. Then he proceeded to create a world for them and sent them as spirits to obtain a mortal body, for which he made preparation. And when they were upon the earth, he gave them instructions on how to go about developing and conducting their lives to make them perfect, so they could return to their Father in heaven after their transitions. Then came the periods of time when souls were to be placed upon the earth and born to parents who were permitted to furnish the bodies. But no parent has ever yet on this earth been the parent of a spirit, because we are so far yet from perfection. Remember what was said a while ago, that “As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become.”They came with the definite understanding that they could return to become like God and go forward in their great development and progress.Could you produce a spirit? Has anyone whom you know ever produced a spirit? This is a power not given to mortal man, so there is much for us to learn.“We have not the power in the flesh to create and bring forth or produce a spirit [with all the vaunted knowledge of the experts in the world, this has not been given to man]; but we have the power to produce [with the help of God] a temporal body [for our children]. The germ of this, God has placed within us. … Herein, brethren, you can perceive that we have not finished, and cannot finish our work, while we live here [on the earth], no more than Jesus did while he was in the flesh.” ( 15:137.)Let me mention one more thing. While we are in the mortal body we cannot “fashion kingdoms [or] organize matter, for [that is] beyond our capacity and calling, beyond this world. In the resurrection, men who have been faithful and diligent in all things in the flesh, [who] have kept their first and second estate, and [are] worthy to be crowned Gods, even the sons of God, will be ordained to organize matter. How much matter do you suppose there is between here and some of the fixed stars which we can see? Enough to frame many, very many millions of such earths as this, yet it is now so diffused, clear and pure, that we look through it and behold the stars. Yet the matter is there. Can you form any conception of this? Can you form any idea of the minuteness of matter?” ( 15:137).Can you realize even slightly how relatively little we know? As Paul said, “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.” We talk about the gospel in its fulness; yet we realize that a large part is still available to us as we prepare, as we perfect our lives, and as we become more like our God. Are we ready for it? In the Doctrine and Covenants we read of Abraham, who has already attained godhood. He has received many powers, undoubtedly, that we would like to have and will eventually get if we continue faithful and perfect our lives.Let me conclude with this thought, the song “O My Father”:My brethren, God bless you as we carry forward our lives toward perfection so that we may attain and receive the blessings that we are promised, that we may reach godhood eventually and have the blessings appertaining thereto.I ask the Lord to bless us as we go to our homes, as we train our children, as we teach them the truths of the everlasting gospel; that they too may arrange their lives early so that they may point them toward that perfection which the Lord will recognize in the eternities. I ask these blessings, leaving our blessings upon you, with the testimony that this is the truth, that God lives, and that Jesus is the Christ. You know it and I know it, and our lives should show it in all of our activities. I bear this testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.