The first words of the Bible are:“In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.“And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.“And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.“And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.” We note from this scripture that God  there  for light was good, and he divided the light from the darkness.Why did God say, “Let there be light”?First of all, we must establish just what light is. How would you define it? Too often we take for granted some seemingly commonplace things, but we cannot define them. The term  has several meanings in science and philosophy, but for simplification we will concentrate on Webster’s ideological definition, which calls it something that makes vision possible, or spiritual illumination.Though scientists vary in their understanding of the nature of the substance of light, they do say that all energy has its origin in light (mostly from the sun).We know that without physical light we cannot see the things around us or even where we are going; and without spiritual light we cannot have knowledge or understanding. We should note that many who cannot see with their physical eyes are not left in darkness, because they have the same opportunity as others for enlightening their minds through spiritual illumination.Darkness is described as a condition devoid of light; not receiving, reflecting, transmitting, or radiating light; not clear to the understanding; or showing evil traits and desires. Complete darkness, then, would be the absence of light and truth and thus would not exist in intelligence.Let us further clarify these meanings by referring to the scriptures.We read in John: “Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.” Jesus also said, referring to himself as the Son of God:“He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.“And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.“For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.“But he that doeth truth cometh to the light.” Isaiah foretold the apostasy and the darkness which would cover the earth and the people. He said:“The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.“Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate.” “For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee.” This period of the apostasy was known as the Dark Ages because the light of the gospel was withdrawn from the earth.More recently, in modern revelation, the Lord has declared: “And when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that sit in darkness, and it shall be the fulness of my gospel.” We are encouraged to remain faithful through a promise of increased light and knowledge, for He said:“That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.” “And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things.” How glorious and how desirable! Who would not want to strive for such a blessing? Consider the following description of the Son of God:“He that ascended up on high, as also he descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things, that he might be in all and through all things, the light of truth;“Which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made.“… and is the light of the moon, …“As also the light of the stars, …“And the earth also, and the power thereof, even the earth upon which you stand.“And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings;“Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space—“The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.” Reference has been made to the apostasy in the so-called Dark Ages. The Old Testament prophets repeatedly foretold the great apostasy and referred to a darkness that would cover the earth and the people. From the scriptures cited it is evident that only through the Spirit of Christ can we be enlightened and comprehend truth and that when the gospel was withdrawn from the earth, the progress of man was retarded. Since the restoration of the gospel, and the investiture once again of the power of God as given to man through the priesthood of God, it is remarkable to note the advances in all fields of learning. All truth is discerned through the Spirit of Truth or the Light of Christ, as the following scripture verifies:“For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ.” While our Savior was enduring the agony of the crucifixion, there was darkness upon the face of the land. Luke records:“And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.“And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.“And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.” At this same time the inhabitants on the American Continent were awaiting the events which their  had foretold concerning the crucifixion of the Lord. At the appointed time the signs and wonders appeared, and there were storms and tempests and lightnings such as had never been known; and great and terrible destruction changed the whole face of the land, after which there was thick darkness for the space of three days:“There could be no light, because of the darkness, neither candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not be any light at all;“And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land.” The darkness was dispelled by the appearance of the resurrected Lord, who came to visit his “other sheep” referred to in John when he said:“And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.” We find further powerful evidence of the contrast between light and darkness in connection with the First Vision of Joseph Smith in preparation for the restoration of the gospel. In earnestly seeking to know which church to join, he came upon this passage of scripture in James which reads:“If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.” This he determined to do and retired to the woods to make the attempt. I read from his account and call your attention to the references to darkness and light:“After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, … I kneeled down and began to offer up the desire of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick  gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction.“But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction—not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being—just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of  exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.“It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the  rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—”  selected italics added.)Joseph was told to join none of the existing churches. He followed this instruction and continued to pursue his “common vocations in life” until he felt compelled (some four years later) to seek again for guidance and, to quote from his own account, “forgiveness of all my sins and follies, and also for a manifestation to me, that I might know of my state and standing before him; for I had full confidence in obtaining a divine manifestation, as I previously had one.”He relates: “While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a  appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was  than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor.“… his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly  but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me.”  italics added.)This personage was the angel Moroni, and he delivered a message concerning the gold plates from which the Book of Mormon was to be translated. That event heralded the restoration of the gospel (also foretold by Old and New Testament prophets) and the additional light and knowledge which men can enjoy through acceptance of the teachings of Jesus Christ, and through the influence of the priesthood of God, which is the power of God given to men to act in his name.Every individual has the right to and can have the Light of Christ in his life as an abiding influence. But he must  that privilege and blessing. Each of us must so live as to be worthy for the blessings of the Lord to attend us. This means we must know and understand and keep his commandments. Through the saving principles of the gospel, we can use the light in our lives to dispel the darkness in the world and to thwart the plans of that Prince of Darkness, even Satan, who has vowed to destroy mankind and the glorious plan of life and salvation authored by God and his Son Jesus Christ.We have a prophet of God upon the earth today, even Spencer W. Kimball, through whom God speaks to man just as he did in former days, and as we accept his counsel, we will receive further light and knowledge.Parents have a particular responsibility to teach their children the importance of following the light and avoiding the darkness. This applies to both their spiritual and physical surroundings. It is a fact that most evil is perpetrated under the cover of darkness. The Lord has warned:“And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.” Our sons and daughters should know that they are actually spirit children of God and that he loves them and wants them to succeed and be happy. He will give to each of us, as he did to Joseph Smith and as he has done for his children from Adam until the present time, an answer to our prayers, the comforting influence of the Holy Ghost, and the  we need to keep us from stumbling into the darkness.A recently composed musical play () by Carol Lynn Pearson and Lex De Azevedo has a very sweet little song with great appeal. It is entitled “Look for the Little Light” (p. 30) and has this message:We have the gospel in its fulness. We are continually being warned to walk by the light of the gospel, living and teaching it to all the world; and the Lord has said:“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” May each of us so live that through our works of righteousness, and with the light of Christ in our lives, we may contribute to and see the dawning of a brighter day in a dark and troubled world, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.You have now heard from both of my wonderful counselors. They are great men and carry much of the load of this great Church.Brethren, we cannot relax while many of our brothers and sisters and many of our young men and women are failing to participate in the programs of the Church. I ask that you again reflect on your responsibilities in this matter and take steps to accelerate this work of redemption.I knew a young mother who lost her husband by death. The family had been in poor circumstances and the insurance policy was only $2,000, but it was like a gift from heaven. The company promptly delivered the check for that amount as soon as proof of death was furnished. The young widow concluded she should save this for emergencies, and accordingly deposited it in the bank. Others knew of her savings, and one kinsman convinced her that she should lend the $2,000 to him at a high rate of interest.Years passed, and she had received neither principal nor interest. She noticed that the borrower avoided her and made evasive promises when she asked him about the money. Now she needed the money and it could not be had.“How I hate him!” she told me, and her voice breathed venom and bitterness and her dark eyes flashed. To think that an able-bodied man would defraud a young widow with a family to support! “How I loathe him!” she repeated over and over. Then I told her my Bishop Kempton story, where a man forgave the murderer of his father. She listened intently. I saw she was impressed. At the conclusion there were tears in her eyes, and she whispered: “Thank you. Thank you sincerely. Surely I, too, must forgive my enemy. I will now cleanse my heart of its bitterness. I do not expect ever to receive the money, but I leave my offender in the hands of the Lord.”Weeks later, she saw me again and confessed that those intervening weeks had been the happiest of her life. A new peace had overshadowed her and she was able to pray for the offender and forgive him, even though she never received back a single dollar. (See Spencer W. Kimball,  Bookcraft, 1969, pp. 293–94.)I saw another woman once whose little girl had been violated. “I will never forgive the culprit so long as I live,” she repeated every time it came into her mind. Vicious and ugly was the act. Anyone would be shocked and disturbed at such a crime, but to be unwilling to forgive is not Christlike. The foul deed was done and could not be undone. The culprit had been disciplined. In her bitterness the woman shriveled and shrank into a miserable person. (See  p. 294.)Contrast this woman with the Latter-day Saint girl who climbed the heights of self-control as she forgave the man who disfigured her lovely face. Let the United Press newsman, Neal Corbett, tell the story as it appeared in the pages of the San Francisco newspapers.“‘I would think he must be suffering, anybody who’s like that, we ought to feel sorry for him,’ said April Aaron of the man who had sent her to a hospital for three weeks, following a brutal … knife attack. April Aaron is a devout Mormon, 22 years of age. … She is a secretary who is as pretty as her name, but her face has just one blemish—the right eye is missing … April lost it to the ‘wildly slashing knife of a purse snatcher,’ near San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park while en route to an MIA dance. … She also suffered deep slashes on her left arm and right leg during a struggle with her assailant, after she tripped and fell in her efforts to elude him just one block from the Mormon chapel. …“‘I ran for a block and a half before he caught me. You can’t run very fast on high heels,’ April said with a smile. Slashes on her leg were so severe [that] doctors feared for a time it would need amputation. The sharp edge of the weapon could damage neither April’s vivaciousness, nor her compassion. ‘… I wish that somebody could do something for him, to help him. He should have some treatment. Who knows what leads a person to do a thing like this? If they don’t find him, he’s likely to do it again.’“… April Aaron has won the hearts of the people in the San Francisco Bay area with her courage and good spirit in face of tragedy. Her room at St. Francis hospital was banked with flowers throughout her stay and attendants said they couldn’t recall when anyone received more cards and expressions of good wishes.” (Cited in  p. 294.)The following is taken from a Los Angeles newspaper account attesting to the strength of people who have risen above the sordid revenge and ugly bitterness which so often prevail in such circumstances:“Three men were apprehended for the kidnap-murder of Marvin W. Merrill of Los Angeles. I knew Marvin personally—this young man grew up in my community—from his childhood. … Angelo B. Rollins, a black postal employee, was selected by the mail-carriers at Wagner Station to represent them by reading a eulogy at the funeral services. Elder Merrill had served the postal department for more than 20 years. Scattered throughout the chapel and overflow room were scores of postmen who came directly from their postal routes, still in their uniforms. … Rollins said: ‘No man can condone the actions of the perpetrators who ended his life. These vicious and vile acts that make us bow our heads in shame, point an accusing finger at innocent millions as a nation of offenders. In my sinful weakness, I would have rent them limb from limb,’” said this man, “‘but the still small voice of the Master said, “Vengeance is Mine.” [see   … This Mormon Elder, Marvin Merrill, firm in the strength of his faith, and steeped in the teachings of Christ, would probably have said of them, as did our Savior at Calvary, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.”  (Cited in  p. 295.)Once I heard a neighbor say, “I hate those people across the border. They are dirty men. They have done so much evil in the world.” This man had not stopped to think that among that people were numerous good men, honest and upright. They were not responsible for what the leaders of the country had done. All men were not as vicious or cruel. They should not be judged by the evil deeds of their fellow nationals. Most men were grieved by the kinds of evil committed.Another neighbor was bitter against the people across his boundary. He often repeated, “I hate the men over there. They have been cruel, vicious, and unrelenting.”I said to this neighbor, “I personally love that people. Only a limited number were cruel and vicious. There are mighty good people among them, some of them lovable sons of God.”I knew of two soldiers on a fierce battlefront, when during a temporary armistice in the war, one young man crossed the battle line and asked his antagonist, “Is there a Mormon elder in your lines?”The other answered, “Yes, I am a Mormon.”He then asked, “Would you come behind our trench lines and help me administer to and bless a wounded buddy?” Across the “no-man’s land” they walked together, these two men, former enemies. One anointed and the other sealed the anointing, and the wounded chap was blessed. A great peace entered their souls. The other man returned to his front lines to his duty, and he also had a new feeling of peace.Of course, we do not hold all men responsible for what individuals do. We learn to forgive.I had another experience in a very important area in the Church. Unfortunately, two Church leaders had become embroiled in a feud and neither would yield.I had held a stake conference all day and had gone without my supper and had traveled over a range of mountains to meet these unhappy people.Hour after hour we served, and begged, and endeavored to convince them to change their minds and get them together, all to no avail.Eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve o’clock, one, and two o’clock and the night was going fast, and I was very, very weary. I flipped open my Doctrine and Covenants again. Automatically it turned to page 105 and I read it to them. They almost gasped for wonder, and this is what we read:“Nevertheless, he has sinned; but verily I say unto you, I, the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death.“My disciples, in days of old, sought occasion against one another and forgave not one another in their hearts; and for this evil they were afflicted and sorely chastened.“Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin.“I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.“And ye ought to say in your hearts—let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds.“And him that repenteth not of his sins, and confesseth them not, ye shall bring before the church, and do with him as the scripture saith unto you, either by commandment or by revelation.” I could feel the two antagonists were yielding, and I read the Lord’s Prayer, wherein He said,“But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do. …“For your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.“After this manner … pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.“Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.“Give us this day our daily bread.“And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.“And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.” As though he needed to refresh their minds, the Lord returned to the theme:“For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Hard to do? Of course. The Lord never promised an easy road, nor a simple gospel, nor low standards, nor a low norm. The price is high, but the goods attained are worth all they cost. The Lord himself turned the other cheek; he suffered himself to be buffeted and beaten without remonstrance; he suffered every indignity and yet spoke no word of condemnation. And his question to all of us is: “Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be?” And his answer to us is: “Even as I am.” In his  William Jennings Bryan wrote:“The most difficult of all the virtues to cultivate is the forgiving spirit. Revenge seems to be natural with man; it is human to want to get even with an enemy. It has even been popular to boast of vindictiveness; it was once inscribed on a man’s monument that he had repaid both friends and enemies more than he had received. This was not the spirit of Christ.” (Independence, Zion’s Printing and Publishing Company, 1925, p. 35.)If we have been wronged or injured, forgiveness means to blot it completely from our minds. To forgive and forget is an ageless counsel. “To be wronged or robbed,” said the Chinese philosopher Confucius, “is nothing unless you continue to remember it.”The injuries inflicted by neighbors, by relatives, or by spouses are generally of a minor nature, at least at first. We must forgive them. Since the Lord is so merciful, must not we be? “Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy”  is another version of the Golden Rule. “All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men,” said the Lord, “but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.”  If the Lord is so gracious and kind, we must be also.“When such people as the widow, Bishop Kempton, April Aaron and others grievously wronged can forgive; when men like Stephen and Paul can forgive vicious attacks against themselves and set the example of forgiveness; then all men should be able to forgive in their reach for perfection.“Across the barren deserts of hate and greed and grudge is the beautiful valley of paradise. We read in the papers and hear on TV constantly that the world ‘is in an awful mess.’ Not true! The world is still most beautiful. It is man who is off center. The sun still illumines the day and gives light and life to all things; the moon still brightens the night; oceans still feed the world and provide transportation; rivers still drain the land, and provide irrigation water to nourish crops. Even the ravages of time have not sloughed off the majesty of the mountains. Flowers still bloom and birds still sing, and children still laugh and play. What is wrong with the world is man-made.“It can be done. Man can conquer self. Man can overcome. Man can forgive all who have trespassed against him and go on to receive  in this life and eternal life in the world to come.” ( p. 300.)Now we come to a realization that the kingdom of God and the church of Jesus Christ constitute a world church. It is fast coming to have world dominion. We, its members, must learn to contain ourselves and love all mankind, all our brothers and sisters of every nation and clime. Certainly we shall be wholly without enmity or grudge or ill feeling. We must forgive to be forgiven. Let God be the righteous judge.We shall love all our neighbors as ourselves and God will bless all of us. Jesus Christ, also our Lord and Savior, is the Lord of this world. God bless us that we may follow closely his dictates, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.