My brothers and sisters and friends, one goal that most of us share in this life is the desire to achieve true joy and lasting happiness. There is only one way to do this, and that is by being obedient to all the commandments of God. As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have voluntarily entered into holy covenants, promising to obey the Lord’s commandments. Willing, righteous obedience leads to celestial life; indeed, there is no eternal progress without it. Yet obedience to the commandments of God seems to be one of man’s most difficult challenges.Some people do not obey because they feel their free agency will be trampled upon if they consider themselves subservient to Church authorities or enter into binding ordinances. Others willfully choose an existence of being “contrary to the nature of happiness.”  Still others, products of an undisciplined life, persist in their weaknesses and justify their course of action by shrugging and saying, “That’s just the way I am.”Disobedience to God and His chosen servants ignores the fact that we are all the children of an Eternal Father who has endowed us with the capacity to be as He and His Son Jesus Christ are—perfected, glorified, holy personages. Often we forget that obedience must be learned. Even Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten Son of God, learned perfect obedience, which qualified Him to serve as our Lawgiver and Lord. In Hebrews we read:“Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;“And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him.” We now tread in the same path that He trod. That path has been clearly marked out for each of us with signs and warnings to guide us along the way, preventing us from being diverted and lost. But, like Jesus, we must learn obedience. That is the purpose of our mortal life. If we fail in this experience, we will not find the true happiness that leads to exaltation.There are several ways the Lord has set for us to learn obedience, so we may prove ourselves and merit His approval and blessings here and eternal glory with Him in the worlds to come.First of all, we have not been left to walk alone. The Lord has clearly revealed His will concerning His children and shown us His plan of redemption. His laws are explicitly recorded in the standard works of the Church, which are the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price.The Prophet Joseph Smith taught:“We cannot keep all the commandments without first knowing them, and we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received.” ( p. 256.)Concerning scripture study, the Prophet also taught: “He who reads it oftenest will like it best.” ( p. 56.)The scriptures contain the promises of the Lord to His obedient children. Where the Lord God commands, He also promises great rewards to those who obey. We read from the Bible:“And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. …“The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways.” Now a quote from the Book of Mormon:“And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his commandments ye should prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his commandments he doth bless you and prosper you.“And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and granted unto you your lives, for which ye are indebted unto him.“And secondly, he doth require that ye should do as he hath commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you; and therefore he hath paid you. And ye are still indebted unto him, and are, and will be, forever and ever.” Next, from the Doctrine and Covenants:“For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you.” “I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.” Finally, from the Pearl of Great Price:“And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;“And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever.” These scriptural passages clearly state that great rewards are promised to those who obey.A second way we learn obedience is by following the counsel of living prophets and other appointed Church leaders. We are fortunate to live in a time when a living prophet is on the earth to counsel and guide us. Our Heavenly Father communicates His will through His prophet, and God will not permit His prophet to lead His people astray. The importance of the words of God’s prophet has been clearly stated to the Church as follows:“Thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me;“For his word ye shall receive,  in all patience and faith.”  italics added.)Then follows this promise to us when we heed the Lord’s admonition:“For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name’s glory.” The Lord has also provided local authorities—stake and district presidents, bishops and branch presidents. In a letter from the First Presidency, dated January 29, 1973, Church members were admonished:“The Lord has so organized His Church that there is accessible to every member—man, woman, and child—a spiritual advisor, and a temporal counselor as well, who knows them intimately and who knows the circumstances and conditions out of which their problems come, and who, by reason of his ordination, is entitled to an endowment from our Heavenly Father of the necessary discernment and inspiration of the Lord to enable him to give the advice which the one in trouble so much needs. We refer to the Bishop or Branch President. If the Bishop or Branch President needs assistance, he may go to the Stake or Mission President. These brethren may in turn seek counsel from one of the General Authorities, should such be necessary.”If a matter cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the first steps of this process, we should be obedient and supportive of those who preside over us until further counsel is received.Third, we learn obedience by disciplining our lives in all things. One process by which we discipline ourselves is by repentance, for it “is the way to annul the effects of a previous lack of obedience in one’s life.” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Bookcraft, 1969, p. 28.)We must recognize that mortality has been granted to us as a probationary state where all physical appetites are to be mastered. It is far more difficult to repent in the spirit world of sins which involve physical habits and actions. The words of Amulek in the Book of Mormon give emphasis to this principle: “Behold,” he said, “now is the time and the day of your salvation. …“This life is the time for men to prepare to meet God. …“If we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed. …“That same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.” It is obvious we either discipline our lives here, or pay the price for the undisciplined life in the world to come.Finally, we learn obedience, as the Savior did, by the things which we suffer. As we consider the lives of Saints in both past and present dispensations, we learn their lives were refined by affliction, hardship, persecution, and personal suffering. Job, who was no stranger to affliction, said in the time of his trials: “[God] knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.” In the despair of his own personal suffering, Joseph Smith was reminded that suffering can make saints of mortal men when they are “willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [them], even as a child doth submit to his father.” Sometime in the eternities to come, we will see that our trials were calculated to cause us to turn to our Heavenly Father for strength and support. Any affliction or suffering we are called upon to bear may be directed to give us experience, refinement, and perfection.The Lord has revealed in this dispensation that our rewards in the eternities are predicated on our level of obedience. If we are fully obedient to celestial law, fulfilling the laws of Christ, we will be worthy of a celestial glory. But for those who do not fully comply with celestial law, other lesser degrees of glory have been prepared, for the scriptures record:“They who are not sanctified through the … law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom.“For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory.” And this is the promised reward for those who completely comply with the laws of the celestial kingdom and endure to the end:“They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things—“They are they who are priests and kings, who have received of his fulness, and of his glory.” Keeping the commandments of God is not a difficult burden when we do it out of love of Him who has so graciously blessed us. The Savior has implored us to “take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” Our willingness to comply with the commandments of God is a witness of our faith in Him and our love for Him. A rebellious disposition cannot inherit the celestial kingdom.In the Doctrine and Covenants we learn:“But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, but are full of all manner of evil, and do not impart of their substance, as becometh saints, to the poor and afflicted among them;“And are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom;“And Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself.“And my people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer.” By reading the scriptures, heeding the counsel of God’s prophets and other divinely called Church leaders, disciplining our lives, and enduring our burdens in faith, our natures will become refined and perfected.May we keep before us this wisdom which flowed from the pen of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the early Saints of this dispensation:“In obedience there is joy and peace unspotted, unalloyed; and as God has designed our happiness … He never will institute an ordinance or give a commandment to His people that is not calculated in its nature to promote that happiness which He has designed, and which will not end in the greatest amount of good and glory to those who become the recipients of his law and ordinances.” ( 5:135.)“When the Lord commands, do it,” was a rule in the life of the first prophet of this dispensation. May that be the motto and practice of each one of us, I humbly pray, as I bear witness to the truth in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.That the inhabitants of the earth are today floundering in confusion is no secret. That chaos threatens society is common knowledge. If the prevailing course of men and nations is not changed, it will culminate in a cataclysmic disaster. God has so predicted, and history bears witness.For six thousand years civilizations have risen, flourished, declined, and passed away pursuant to the same cycle of events.Civilizations rise as their people comply with the laws upon which prosperity, success, and happiness depend. These laws God revealed in the beginning and, through His prophets, He has repeated them in every dispensation since.Civilizations have flourished as long as these laws are obeyed. Civilizations decline to the extent such laws are disobeyed. Civilizations pass away when these laws are completely disregarded.Beginning in the days of Adam, and in every gospel dispensation since, the Lord has warned the inhabitants of the earth that their continued violation of the laws of righteousness, which He has revealed, would bring on their destruction.All history, sacred and profane, testifies to the accuracy of this prediction.In the beginning the Lord taught Adam and Eve the laws of righteousness by which they could live in peace and prosperity. They in turn taught these laws to their children.“And Satan came among them, saying: … Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish.” For centuries the posterity of Adam was repeatedly called to repentance by the prophets. Only the people of Enoch listened and obeyed.To the residue, the prophet “Noah … taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning.” But they would not hearken.“And the Lord said unto Noah: My Spirit shall not always strive with man, … yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years; and if men do not repent, I will send in the floods upon them. …“Noah called upon the children of men that they should repent; but they hearkened not. …“Every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually.” But Noah continued his preaching, saying:“Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, … and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, … and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not. …“And God looked upon the earth, and … it was corrupt. …“And God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will destroy all flesh from off the earth.” And this He did. Noah and his family were the sole survivors.The people of Sodom and Gomorrah went through a similar cycle. They were warned and heeded not. For their iniquities “the Lord rained upon [them] brimstone and fire. …“He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.” Jerusalem was destroyed and its inhabitants were scattered throughout the earth because of their rejection of God’s laws of righteous living.Warning and calling them to repentance, Jesus said:“Behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:“That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.“Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation.”Foreseeing their destruction caused him to lament: “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!“Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.” In America two great civilizations, the Jaredite and the Nephite, were completely annihilated because of their rejection of the laws of righteousness which God revealed unto them.In both cases, the Lord, through His prophets, pointed out their iniquities, warned them, and predicted their destruction if they did not repent. This they did not do. Consequently they were totally destroyed.We today are approaching the close of a similar cycle. We have been warned that we are ripening in iniquity and that we will be destroyed if we do not repent.In November 1831, the Lord, through His modern prophet, Joseph Smith, Jr., said:“Hearken, O ye people of my church, … verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.“For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated.“And the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow; for their iniquities shall be spoken upon the housetops, and their secret acts shall be revealed.“And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples.” May I remind you that the elders of Israel are some of those disciples.“And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them. …“Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear:“Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh.” Now that was spoken of the coming of the Redeemer for the second time.“And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth.“And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, … shall be cut off from among the people.” Having so declared, the Lord thus stated the cause of the predicament in which the inhabitants of the earth find themselves today. This was His diagnosis:“They have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall.“Wherefore, I the Lord”—now He gives His remedy for what He saw coming—“knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;“And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world.” Among the things to be proclaimed unto the world were certain impending disasters. He said for example:“A desolating scourge shall go forth among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall continue to be poured out from time to time,  until the earth is empty, and the inhabitants thereof are consumed away and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my coming.” That’s the Savior speaking.“Behold, I tell you these things, even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.”  italics added.)Later, He called upon Joseph Smith the Prophet and said, in part:“Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Redeemer. …“Ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine elect …“To prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked.“For the hour is nigh and the day soon at hand when the earth is ripe; and all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts, that wickedness shall not be upon the earth;“For the hour is nigh, and that which was spoken by mine apostles must be fulfilled; for as they spoke so shall it come to pass;“For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand. …“But, behold, I say unto you that before this great day shall come the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall be turned into blood, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and there shall be greater signs in heaven above and in the earth beneath;“And there shall be weeping and wailing among the hosts of men;“And there shall be a great hailstorm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth.“And it shall come to pass, because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent; for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold, my blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not.“Wherefore, I the Lord God will send forth flies upon the face of the earth, which shall take hold of the inhabitants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and shall cause maggots to come in upon them;“And their tongues shall be stayed that they shall not utter against me; and their flesh shall fall from off their bones, and their eyes from their sockets.” Now my beloved brothers and sisters, I realize that these predictions are not pleasing, but nevertheless they speak the truth. They are the words of the true and living God, who said:“I tell you these things, even as I also told the people of the destruction of Jerusalem; and my word shall be verified at this time as it hath hitherto been verified.” There is but one way these impending calamities can be avoided, and that way is repentance.You know and I know that the inhabitants of the earth are steeped in sin and iniquity and that they are sinking deeper into the mire every day.But—and this is the glorious message—the Lord not only gave the warnings; He also revealed anew the means by which the ominous calamities may be averted.He has revealed anew the same simple truths He taught Adam and Eve in the beginning. Collectively, these teachings constitute the principles, doctrines, and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which begins with a knowledge of and faith in God our Eternal Father in heaven and Jesus Christ His Only Begotten Son in the flesh, our Savior and Redeemer. They include the truth that the inhabitants of the earth, God’s offspring, are in mortality for the purpose of being proved to see if they will keep the commandments of God.These commandments are not arbitrary edicts of a vindictive tyrant. They but set forth the laws and ordinances which produce—as a matter of cause and effect—peace, success, and happiness. Rejection of and disobedience to them has in the past always brought, and will continue to bring, failure and disaster as a natural consequence.The closing of the tragic cycle by the coming of the foreboding calamities can be averted if the inhabitants of the earth will repent, believe, and have faith in God as our Heavenly Father, in His Son Jesus Christ as our Redeemer, and will conform to their teachings. A good beginning would be to obey the commandments God gave to the children of Israel through Moses, the ones President Kimball has already quoted from this pulpit this day. The Lord said then and it is still true:“I am the Lord thy God. …“Thou shalt have no other gods before me. …“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. …“Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. …“Honour thy father and thy mother. …“Thou shalt not kill.“Thou shalt not commit adultery.“Thou shalt not steal.“Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.“Thou shalt not covet.” If the inhabitants of the earth will obey these commandments and, in addition, strive with full purpose of heart to comply with the words of Jesus to “love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind” and “love thy neighbour as thyself”  the predicted calamities can be prevented. But only in this manner can the closing of the tragic cycle in our day be averted.That it will be so I do not say. I do know, and I say, that as there was a Zion in the days of Enoch in which those who complied with God’s laws were saved, so there shall be a Zion in this last dispensation in which all those who live God’s revealed laws will be saved.To all of these things which the Lord has spoken, I bear my solemn witness in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.