This morning I would like to speak of a division of Welfare Services which is rarely mentioned in this Welfare Services meeting, and yet through its organization and activities it draws all who participate—the giver and the receiver—so very close to the Savior. We might appropriately call it a “haven of love,” a very special haven for some very special people, where perhaps for the first time an individual begins to feel worth something after all—This haven for special people is Deseret Industries. Deseret Industries epitomizes the spirit of the Savior’s teachings and is one of the most exciting aspects of Welfare Services. What makes it so exciting is the influence it has in the lives of people who serve there. Let me introduce you to some of these wonderful people.[A film was shown.]Perhaps you sense now why these are such wonderful people. Their example of faith, self-reliance, and determination is a beacon and a sermon to all. Let me share with you in a little more detail what happens to those who work at Deseret Industries. A father tells this story of his son:“The great blessing we have in our home is the oldest of our three boys. He is thirty-one years of age and was injured at birth. As a result of brain damage, his muscular coordination and powers of speech have been severely impaired. Mentally, he’s just as normal as anyone.“He has one of the greatest personalities I’ve ever seen. Everything is okay with Mike. He’s a grand sport, so grateful for everything you do for him, never complains. He has a great sense of right and wrong and is always on the side of the good guys. He had more to do with my joining the Church than anything else. I learned a lot about praying by praying for him.“About the time our regional Deseret Industries store was to be completed, the bishop made the suggestion that perhaps Mike could find a job there. Neither my wife nor I could bear to think of taking him any place and leaving him alone like that, but after talking to the bishop and stake president, we decided to give it a try.“It has turned out to be one of the greatest things that has ever happened in our lives, or in Mike’s. At first they had him dyeing shoes, with the result that he got more dye on himself than on the shoes. So they put him to washing dishes. He must have broken too many because they changed him to sorting rags. Presently he is cutting off buttons, for which he is paid eighty cents an hour. Can you imagine what eighty cents worth of buttons would be? I doubt that a normal person could cut off eighty cents worth of buttons an hour. But the main interest at Deseret Industries is making people feel useful and happy.“If you want to give yourself a spiritual treat, just visit Deseret Industries and associate with those who work there and see how much love and concern they have for each other, and how happy they are in their work.”An awakening to a sense of personal worth stands at the heart of everything Deseret Industries does. It is exhibited in the theme song adopted by the Mesa Deseret Industries. At the dismissal from morning devotional, all the workers sing, “Let Me Call You Sweetheart.” As they walk arm in arm to their work stations, you witness a feeling of profound love.Brother Jim Clegg, manager of the Murray Deseret Industries, attended a sacrament meeting in his son’s ward, where the program was provided by some retarded youth. The final number was a solo to be sung by a sweet mongoloid sister. Brother Clegg knew this young woman could sing because she participated in the Murray Deseret Industries choir, but little did he know that one of the seventy-year-old brethren at the Deseret Industries had been working closely with her because he recognized some natural vocal ability.As she stood up to perform her number, she noticed Brother Clegg in the audience and cried out, “That’s my Deseret Industries manager, there in the back!” She proceeded to tell the congregation that Deseret Industries was the most wonderful place in the whole world.As she sang “I Am a Child of God,” no one in the audience doubted that indeed Deseret Industries is the most wonderful place in the world.In May 1938, the Deseret Industries was established. Its charter was outlined by the First Presidency to permit those who have to share with those who have not by giving of their surplus property, such as clothing, furniture, appliances, etc., to Deseret Industries—where the work of renovation would employ the unemployed—and to make available those same articles of good quality at affordable cost.Although it would appear that employment is the prime purpose of Deseret Industries, it is only a means to an end—the end being to bless the lives of these people through work. Not only does it bless those who work, but also those who give. Deseret Industries could not function were it not for the generosity of those who give goods and materials which the workers mend and repair.Of course, the next step is obvious: this restored merchandise must be sold to complete the cycle.You may be interested in what has happened in Deseret Industries from its beginning forty years ago. As of March 1, 1978, there were 1,700 handicapped employees in twenty-two Deseret Industries stores and satellites. Approximately 60 percent of gross receipts goes directly into handicapped salaries. Presently we have units in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, California, and soon-to-be-opened stores in Oregon, Colorado, and Nevada.My purpose in speaking of Deseret Industries today is two-fold: first, to suggest that those of you who have access to Deseret Industries (or will have in the near future) encourage the members of your wards and stakes to become enthusiastically involved in the program by giving to and then patronizing Deseret Industries; and second, to encourage you leaders who do not have Deseret Industries to analyze the circumstances of your wards and stakes to determine whether or not the time is right to organize the Deseret Industries in your area. If you think it is, make contact through proper priesthood channels with the Welfare Services department here at headquarters.We recognize there will be many areas of the Church where limited membership would make it impractical to introduce the program at the present time. It is not, however, inappropriate to use all of your ingenuity in blessing the people with the principles we have discussed, even before it is possible to have the full program.May I close with just one other experience. Let me tell you of one elderly brother who sat in a nursing home just looking at the floor day after day, week after week. Someone who loved him and knew about Deseret Industries arranged for him to come to work. He began by the supervisor placing a wide push broom in his hands, taking him to the end of a corridor, and having him push the broom down the hall to the other end; then turning him around and having him push it back again. This he did time after time.In the process of doing, he started to get a small glimmer of interest in something—in anything—and his eyes raised from the floor. He saw the walls, and he saw the windows. As this process continued, the development of a feeling that everyone needs was nurtured. It wasn’t long until other assignments were given to him which he did very well. In time his faith in himself and his feeling of worth had been restored. He became a supervisor of others.May the Lord bless these wonderful, special people, and may we be blessed as their leaders, that we, through the work of the Welfare Services program, may bless their lives, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.One day in South America we had the interesting experience of seeing in a hot jungle area a small brownish gray animal hanging upside down in a tree. It had rather long front paws and short back legs. Its movements were so slow that it was hard to know whether it was alive or dead. We were told that it was a sloth. I was intrigued because reference to the sloth appears in scripture. The Lord used it with disdain, referring to those who were slow to act.When the welfare program was begun in the 1930s, it aimed to eliminate the curse of idleness, reestablish self-respect, and help people to help themselves. The basic principles of the Lord’s economic system had earlier been revealed to the Prophet Joseph. Nearly everything that has happened since then has been to prepare us for the time when this program would be needed to a far greater extent. In the intervening years, many great principles have been declared. I shall review these briefly.President Grant declared: “The Church needs blessings, and the only way we can receive … them … is by keeping the laws on which these blessings are predicated. The fundamental law pertaining to the  of our people is fast offering. The reason we want to stress the paying of fast offerings is because we need blessings that come from paying fast offerings.”President Clark counseled: “Live within your means. Get out of debt. Keep out of debt. Lay by for a rainy day which has always come and will come again. Practice and increase your habits of thrift, industry, economy, frugality.” (In  Oct. 1937, p. 107.)“Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. … Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it.” (In  Apr. 1937, p. 26.)“Cash is not food, it is not clothing, it is not coal, it is not shelter; and we have got to the place where no matter how much cash we have, we cannot secure those things in the quantities which we may need. … All that you can be certain you will have is that which you produce.”“We must purge our hearts of the love of ease; we must put out from our lives the curse of idleness. God declared that mortal man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. That is the law of this world.” (In  Apr. 1937, p. 26.)“Many of us are not yet willing to bring ourselves under control and to quit spending not only all of our savings, but also all we are making, and in addition, running in debt on installment buying.” (In  Apr. 1948, p. 117.)You sisters will be pleased to hear again his counsel: “If there is any Bishop in this Church who thinks he can get along without his Relief Society, he does not yet know his job. And if he is getting along without his Relief Society, he is not doing his job.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1948, p. 177.)(May I state parenthetically that the displays in the Relief Society building of ideas for home storage, suggestions for meeting emergencies, etc., should be visited by all who attend the conference.)President Harold B. Lee said, “Priesthood plus womanhood together bring exaltation! Priesthood plus womanhood is necessary in welfare. Without this teamwork, never in the world would we accomplish what we are doing in the welfare program.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 2 Oct. 1971.)President Lee also taught: “Keep in mind that the Church welfare program must begin with you personally and individually. It must begin with every member of the Church. … You have to act for yourself and be a participant before the welfare program is active in your household. Moving out from there, then, to quorums, to united teamwork … tremendous results can come.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 5 Apr. 1969.)“May the Lord help us to understand these fundamentals, and guide us to that destiny which … is … to attain, a full consecration, wherein we consecrate our lives, all that we have and are … for the upbuilding of the kingdom. Then only can we develop the faith necessary to an exaltation in the celestial kingdom.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 5 Oct. 1968.)President Romney has said, “Both history and prophecy—and, I may add, common sense—bear witness to the fact that no civilization can long endure which follows the course charted by bemused manipulators and now being implemented as government welfare programs all around the world.“Babylon shall be destroyed, and great shall be the fall thereof. (See “But do not be discouraged. Zion will not go down with her, because Zion shall be built on the principles of love of God and fellowman, work, and earnest labor, as God has directed. …“As we prepare for the building of Zion, we must not and we shall not abandon the basic principles upon which our Church Welfare Services are founded: —love of God and neighbor—and  or labor.” (In  Apr. 1976, p. 169.)Elsewhere he states, “Almost from the beginning of my service in Church welfare I have had the conviction that what we are doing in this welfare work is preliminary to the reestablishment of the law of consecration and stewardship as required under the united order. If we could always remember the goal toward which we are working, we would never lose our bearings in this great work.” (In  Apr. 1977, p. 118.)Now, brethren, listen to Alma’s landmark counsel for leaders: “And he commanded them [the leaders] that they should teach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets.”  We are under that same obligation.President Tanner said that President Romney was the best informed and greatest authority in the Church today on welfare programs. In the last few years President Romney has restated and expounded the fundamental principles of the welfare program. The major addresses of the welfare sessions have been reported in the conference editions of the  magazine for the last five conferences.The preventive aspects of the welfare program can and must be accomplished by you quorum leaders learning, teaching, and implementing these principles. Besides the preventive work, there is the work of rehabilitation. The individual who is in need of sustenant help should be built back into a self-supporting member of the Church. This is the work of the priesthood quorums as Elder Hinckley illustrated so beautifully six months ago. The quorum must help its weakened members.Likewise, on you Aaronic Priesthood quorum leaders—including the bishopric, of course—falls the responsibility to teach welfare principles to over half a million young men and women.Often we hear youth say: “What is there to ” In addition to the collection of fast offerings by the deacons, some of the finest opportunities lie in the area of Welfare Services. Brethren, build into your programs the excellent activities suggested in the  and  Here is a sampling of the useful and interesting ways in which youth can participate in home storage and Welfare Services activities: store and preserve food and water, store firewood and make newspaper logs, prepare an inventory of family possessions, plant a garden, build a compost pile and make an outdoor storage pit, prune fruit trees, make shopping comparisons, learn about proper diet, cook game fish or meat, clean a house, repair an electrical cord, replace a water faucet, paint the interior and exterior of a house, and enjoy a festival of homemaking skills.Each of these ideas has other suggested projects that are both fun and useful.Brothers and sisters, I have reviewed briefly these principles. They are true. You can live them. Now I give a word of caution, even warning. The word  or  appears in scripture twenty-five times, generally to condemn those who were slow to act. As we watched that sloth hanging in the tree, it reached out ever so slowly to pull off a leaf, then slower still brought it back and put it into its mouth. As we watched it we could understand the words  The Savior’s reference to the sloth and slothfulness illustrates His displeasure and impatience with the person who is slow to act, who is slothful. Brethren and sisters, our generation has been counseled patiently for more than forty years. It is no longer optional to learn and teach and implement these principles. It is crucial!This work is divine. It will yet save and exalt us. That exaltation will come by living this law. May we in unity rise to this challenge and do it, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.