It has been but seven days since throngs of people attended those special worship services, hearing songs and sermons, commemorating that most important event—the crucifixion and resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.In reviewing and pondering that miracle, my thoughts have been drawn to the episode after the Jews had bound Jesus and led Him to the judgment hall.It is recorded in the scripture:“Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall … and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou the King of the Jews?“Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?“Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?“Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.“Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.“Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.” Further negotiations, however, between Pilate and the accusers of Jesus brought about the crucifixion.With the question “What is truth?” Pilate left Jesus standing alone, without granting Him the courtesy of reply. One wonders why. Such action leads one to believe that Pilate feared the truth, perhaps as others might fear it—not being willing to face up to it, not wishing to take upon themselves the discipline and responsibility demanded by truth.Jesus said, “Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.” Those who are “of the truth” are those who sincerely seek after it. All of mankind should be seekers after truth for it is the supreme essence of their lives.One author expresses such a thought with these words: “Yet truth, which only doth judge itself, teacheth that the inquiry of truth, which is the love-making or wooing of it, the knowledge of truth, which is the presence of it, and the belief of truth, which is the enjoying of it, is the sovereign good of human nature.” (Francis Bacon, “Essay of Truth,”  New York: P. F. Collier and Son, Co., 1909, p. 8.)In harmony with that thought an ancient poet wrote: “‘It is a pleasure to stand upon the shore and to see ships tossed upon the sea; a pleasure to stand in the window of a castle and to see a battle and the adventures thereof below: but no pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage ground of truth’ (a hill not to be commanded, and where the air is always clear and serene), ‘and to see the errors and wanderings and mists and tempests in the vale below’; so always that this prospect be with pity, and not with swelling or pride. Certainly, it is heaven upon earth, to have a man’s mind move in charity, rest in providence, and turn upon the poles of truth.” (Bacon, quoting Lucretius, in “Essay of Truth,” p. 8.)It is fitting that we remember the words of Jesus: “And for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth.” Truth is knowledge! “This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”  Truth defined is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ.During the Savior’s ministry on earth, He organized His church, choosing humble but sincere men to be His apostles; He lived with them; He made journeys with them; He taught them; He performed miracles before them; He ordained them, granting authority and power—all preparatory to sending them into the world to declare His gospel.On a certain occasion as He journeyed with them, “Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, [and] he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God.“And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.“And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.” The rock of revelation is the foundation of His church. The principle of revelation is indispensable in the living church. This principle is inherent in the affairs of God as He directs His children through His prophets. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was restored under the power and authority of divine revelation.Early in the nineteenth century a sincere young man whose name was Joseph Smith, a seeker after truth, found in the Epistle of James (which was written to the “twelve tribes which are scattered abroad”  these powerful words: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.“But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.“For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.” With that heavenly invitation to truth, Joseph Smith ventured into the sphere of prayer and received the knowledge of the Father and the Son, two personalities, and instructions from the voice of the Savior. In response to his inquiry Joseph was told that none of the churches existent were true, that “they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.” Further instruction came to him at that time that he would be God’s instrument in restoring His true church upon the earth.“Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.” Sometime later in 1841, eleven years after the organization of the restored church, Joseph Smith was requested to set forth a brief statement of the belief of its members. This statement is known as the Articles of Faith. The eighth and ninth articles of that statement express our belief with respect to revelation from the divine source. It says:“We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. “We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.” We know that the Bible is a compilation of the available revealed messages received by the prophets from God for the benefit and guidance of God’s children here on earth. The Bible is the foundation of our religious library. It has been brought to us in an honorable manner and is sorely needed in this modern world. It contains much of what we need to know. How would we have known of Jesus had the record been lost? Think of the revealing words of John:“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.“The same was in the beginning with God.“All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.“In him was life; and the life was the light of men.“He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.” Jesus was the Creator of this world and all things pertaining to it. He was Jehovah who revealed His will to the prophets, thus ushering in all of the gospel dispensations that have occurred.The Bible, however, does not contain  the revelation that has ever been given.Through modern revelation the Book of Mormon was brought forth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It stands as a new witness of Jesus Christ and discloses that His gospel was known to the ancient inhabitants of the Americas and that He visited the Americas after His ascension. These inhabitants were known to Him as “other sheep of my fold” (see   for they carried in their veins the blood of Israel.Through modern revelation we now know that Adam received the gospel. It has been revealed that “Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord, and they heard the voice of the Lord … speaking unto them, and they saw him not; for they were shut out of his presence.“And he gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.“And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.“And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth.“Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore.“And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will.” We now know more concerning Enoch. The Bible gives but little information about this great prophet. Latter-day revelation tells of his work among his people. Says Enoch, “The Lord which spake with me, the same is the God of heaven, and he is my God, and your God.”  He explained to Enoch the whole plan of salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ as it had been declared to father Adam.We now know more of Noah, that the “Lord ordained Noah after his own order, and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his Gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch.“Noah continued his preaching, … saying: Hearken, and give heed unto my words;“Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not.” Now we know more of Abraham, as Jehovah spoke to him and said: “My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee.“And I will make of thee a great nation, … and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations.” He declared to Abraham the vision of the preexistence of mankind: “Now the Lord had shown unto me … the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;“And God saw these souls that they were good … and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.” Were we to continue to review all of the modern revelations, we would come to realize that this is now the time of which Paul revealed to the Ephesians “that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth.” The gospel reveals to us the need for Jesus to offer Himself as a sacrifice for the sins of men that all mankind may be redeemed, that man may be saved by believing in Him, by believing in all of His teachings, and by being obedient to them, and by being true hearers of the voice of Jesus. It is a lifelong task to hear, to learn, to obey all the vast truths, for the gospel reaches into the eternities.It has been said of our belief in divine revelation that “this declaration of religious belief in the Divine fountain of Truth, and His revelation thereof to man, embraces all truth in the universe: whether revealed or yet to be revealed; whether made known through the inspiration of the Almighty that ‘giveth understanding’ to the spirit of man in his discoveries and developments in the material things of life; or whether manifest in things visible or in things invisible to mortal eyes. It embraces every scientific truth, every historic truth, every truth in philosophy, or logic, or demonstrable fact. That is the scope of revealed religion. It is the system of law and order which prevails under heavenly control. It is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.” (James H. Anderson,  2nd ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938, p. 132.)We invite all to consider the truths spoken from this pulpit, with the suggestion of an ancient poet who said, “Fly no opinion because it is new, but strictly search, reject it if false, embrace it if ’tis true.”May that be done in the attitude of prayer.I bear witness to the truth, that revelation and prayer are indispensable in attaining eternal life, and this I do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.From the book of Psalms we read:“Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.“Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.“Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.“And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment, as the noonday.” The scriptures have always seemed to equate righteous living with a special light, spirit, joy, and happiness in the lives of those who so live.Many years ago when I was a retail executive, we had a night watchman in one of our stores whose teenage daughter had just joined our church. He would often comment on the change that had occurred in the life of his daughter. Her baptism had brought a new spirit into their home. I was attempting to use this event as a base to teach him the gospel.One evening as I was leaving the store, he was by the exit checking out the late customers who had completed their purchases after the store had closed. I stopped for a minute to visit with him. He immediately commenced to tell me about his daughter. He said, “You know, she just radiates since she joined your church.”I proceeded to tell him that having a trust in the Lord and conforming our life to the gospel plan does make a change, even in our countenance. Just at that time I noticed two ladies approaching the door with several other customers. They were neatly dressed, and their faces reflected a special glow. As if my eyes were directed, I immediately noticed a “Duty to God” pin on one of the lady’s dresses, which many of our fine young men present to their mothers after achieving this special award. I turned to my friend and said, “Look at those two ladies coming towards the door. They have a different look. They, too, are members of our church.”He was so caught up in my remark that he rushed over to them and asked, “Are you Mormons?” After confirming this fact, he returned to me shaking his head and saying, “You know, you can tell the difference.” I agree with him. There is a difference in those “who trust in the Lord and do good.”History has given us evidence of this fact from the very beginning. When I read the scriptures, I try to make them come alive. I try to make an association with the great characters described therein.Let me illustrate with an example. Beginning with the thirty-seventh chapter of the book of Genesis, we read a remarkable story about a family who had a large number of boys. One of the sons, Joseph, was loved by his father more than his other brothers. To show his love and appreciation for his son, his father made him a coat of many colors. “And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.” Joseph didn’t help matters much. He dreamed dreams and then would tell them to his brethren, and they hated him even more. Could you imagine how such a dream would go over in your family? He said to his brothers,“Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:“For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.“And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.” To complicate the process, his father allowed Joseph to stay home with him and sent his brethren out into the fields to tend the flocks. Every now and then he would send Joseph out to check up on his brothers. One day when they saw him coming from afar, they felt as if they could stand him no longer and conspired to slay him. They conceived a plan whereby they would kill him and cast him into a pit, then tell their father some evil beast had devoured Joseph.A brother saw a caravan coming from a distance on its way to Egypt, and said,“What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?“Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.” And they took their seventeen-year-old brother and sold him as a slave to a caravan going into Egypt, a strange land, where they spoke a strange tongue and had strange customs. But the Lord was with this remarkable young man, and he seemed never to be discouraged. Though a stranger, a slave, his countenance must have radiated a special spirit. When offered for sale, he was purchased by a captain of the king’s guard. It was only a short time before Joseph had so distinguished himself to the captain that he made him ruler over his house. In authority he was the first servant; and he was made overseer over all the captain had, and the captain put his complete trust, his properties, his income, into the hands of Joseph.Joseph was a “goodly person” and achieved a position of prominence through the help of the Lord. But trouble began again. This handsome young man attracted the eyes of the wife of the captain of the guard. One day when he was working alone in the house, she heard him and came in and put her hand on his coat. Joseph, being a righteous young man, knew that this was no place for him, and he jumped out of his garment and fled. The wife was left holding Joseph’s garment in her hand. When her husband came home, she told a terrible story about Joseph, and the captain became so angry he had Joseph cast into prison. Once again in his young life he found himself in great difficulty—this time in prison.Joseph was not easily discouraged. He set about becoming the best prisoner within the prison, and he gained favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. Insomuch that the scriptures record, “And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it.”  You see, Joseph was given the position of the highest prisoner, and all the prisoners were turned over to his charge. Again in a difficult circumstance, Joseph became the best—even as a prisoner.Cast into prison shortly after Joseph were two of the king’s officers, the chief butler and the chief baker. Joseph soon became acquainted with them. Both of them had dreams. Because Joseph was a righteous man, they asked him to interpret their dreams. Joseph was able to do this. To one he said, you will not get out of prison but lose your life here. To the other he said, you will soon have the opportunity of returning to your position of honor with the Pharaoh. Then he asked the one who would have the opportunity of being restored to his former position to please remember him to the Pharaoh because he had progressed as far as he could as a prisoner.The chief butler was restored to his position of prominence in the king’s service but forgot all about Joseph in prison for two full years. One day the king had a dream which none of the wise men could interpret. When the chief butler then remembered Joseph, he went to the king and said there was a man in prison who could interpret the dream. The Pharaoh sent for Joseph. And Joseph, with the inspiration of the Lord, interpreted the king’s dream. The king was so impressed with Joseph, he was released from prison and became a servant to the Pharaoh. Joseph again so distinguished himself as to become chief in all the land, second only to the Pharaoh himself. (See  Because of the service Joseph rendered, the Pharaoh said unto his servants, “Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?”  The Pharaoh recognized that Joseph was, indeed, directed by the Lord when he said unto Joseph, “forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art.” When one follows the course marked by the road signs of the gospel of Jesus Christ and places his trust in the Lord, its influence is such that it is manifest not only in action and deed but by a marked and visible change in his very being. There is a special light and a spirit which radiates from his eternal soul. It can be described in words like  etc.Brigham Young has said, “The person who enjoys the experience of the knowledge of the Kingdom of God on the earth, and at the same time has the love of God within him, is the happiest of any individuals on the earth. …“You never saw a true Saint in the world that had sorrow, neither can you find one. If persons are destitute of the fountain of living water, or the principles of eternal life, then they are sorrowful. If the words of life dwell within us, and we have the hope of eternal life and glory, and let that spark within us kindle to a flame, to the consuming of the least and last remains of selfishness, we never can walk in darkness and are strangers to doubt and fear. …“It does make the devil mad. That is true, it makes him mad that he cannot afflict this people so as to make them have a sad countenance. …“Where is happiness, real happiness? Nowhere but in God. By possessing the spirit of our holy religion, we are happy in the morning, we are happy at noon, we are happy in the evening; for the spirit of love and union is with us, and we rejoice in the spirit because it is of God, and we rejoice in God, for he is the giver of every good thing. Every Latter-day Saint, who has experienced the love of God in his heart, after having received the remission of his sins, through baptism, and the laying on of hands, realizes that he is filled with joy, and happiness, and consolation. He may be in pain, in error, in poverty, or in prison, if necessity demands, still, he is joyful. This is our experience, and each and every Latter-day Saint can bear witness to it.“Truly happy is that man or woman, or that people, who enjoys the privileges of the Gospel of the Son of God, and who know how to appreciate his blessings.” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941, pp. 235–36.)If this really works, it is the greatest source of happiness to be found on earth. Let me cite one more example as it was written in a recent  magazine.“In the summer of 1953 I was a sixteen-year-old apprentice actress. … Our lead actress was a pretty red-haired girl who had won the lead role in a competition (so I understood) in New York. … She and I shared a suite of rooms, and every morning when I woke up I saw [her] sitting on her bed reading. I awoke to that sight, no matter what the hour, for four months.“The news quickly spread that she was a Mormon, and in an environment where morals simply did not exist, she was as pure as snow. No drinking, no smoking, not even in plays, and no men in her room. She loved everyone, and she was so gentle and friendly even though she was the “star.” And always in the morning she was reading and reading, not her scripts, but some other books and magazines that she had brought with her.“She never talked to me about her religion, and I never asked her. But I never forgot her.“Many years later, after I had married and already had two children, my husband and I became dissatisfied with our spiritual lives. We took religion courses and went to all kinds of churches, but we still were not satisfied.“Then I remembered [her]. She had been, they said, a Mormon. We had no idea what a Mormon was, and I didn’t remember even talking about them in school history. So I went to the public library in the little Alabama town of Opelika, and checked out the only thing I could find: ‘Mormon, The Book of.’ In the back was a list of mission homes and I wrote to the nearest one, which was in Georgia, and asked if they accepted converts. The rest is part of our family history.“I’ve never been able to find that young lady to tell her that, because she lived her religion in a way that I could not forget, thirty-seven people on both sides of our families are members of the Church. Countless others in the spirit world also have been given the opportunity.” ( Dec. 1977, p. 62.)How the world needs the example of those who will let the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ radiate from their eternal souls! How we need to show that righteous living yields an eternal joy!To you who have embraced the gospel of our Lord and Savior, stand as a beacon upon a hill to light the way for those who seek a happier, more fulfilling life. To you who have not discovered this greatest of all gifts, come join with us and let us assist you in building a better life. By conforming our lives to the teachings of our Savior, we can bring greater joy to a troubled world.I humbly pray that we will place our “trust in the Lord and do good” so that it may also be said of us, as it was of Joseph of old, as we live as examples of the gospel of Jesus Christ, “Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?” God lives. Jesus is the Christ. This is his church. This is my humble witness to you today, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.