One day in South America we had the interesting experience of seeing in a hot jungle area a small brownish gray animal hanging upside down in a tree. It had rather long front paws and short back legs. Its movements were so slow that it was hard to know whether it was alive or dead. We were told that it was a sloth. I was intrigued because reference to the sloth appears in scripture. The Lord used it with disdain, referring to those who were slow to act.When the welfare program was begun in the 1930s, it aimed to eliminate the curse of idleness, reestablish self-respect, and help people to help themselves. The basic principles of the Lord’s economic system had earlier been revealed to the Prophet Joseph. Nearly everything that has happened since then has been to prepare us for the time when this program would be needed to a far greater extent. In the intervening years, many great principles have been declared. I shall review these briefly.President Grant declared: “The Church needs blessings, and the only way we can receive … them … is by keeping the laws on which these blessings are predicated. The fundamental law pertaining to the  of our people is fast offering. The reason we want to stress the paying of fast offerings is because we need blessings that come from paying fast offerings.”President Clark counseled: “Live within your means. Get out of debt. Keep out of debt. Lay by for a rainy day which has always come and will come again. Practice and increase your habits of thrift, industry, economy, frugality.” (In  Oct. 1937, p. 107.)“Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. … Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it.” (In  Apr. 1937, p. 26.)“Cash is not food, it is not clothing, it is not coal, it is not shelter; and we have got to the place where no matter how much cash we have, we cannot secure those things in the quantities which we may need. … All that you can be certain you will have is that which you produce.”“We must purge our hearts of the love of ease; we must put out from our lives the curse of idleness. God declared that mortal man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. That is the law of this world.” (In  Apr. 1937, p. 26.)“Many of us are not yet willing to bring ourselves under control and to quit spending not only all of our savings, but also all we are making, and in addition, running in debt on installment buying.” (In  Apr. 1948, p. 117.)You sisters will be pleased to hear again his counsel: “If there is any Bishop in this Church who thinks he can get along without his Relief Society, he does not yet know his job. And if he is getting along without his Relief Society, he is not doing his job.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1948, p. 177.)(May I state parenthetically that the displays in the Relief Society building of ideas for home storage, suggestions for meeting emergencies, etc., should be visited by all who attend the conference.)President Harold B. Lee said, “Priesthood plus womanhood together bring exaltation! Priesthood plus womanhood is necessary in welfare. Without this teamwork, never in the world would we accomplish what we are doing in the welfare program.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 2 Oct. 1971.)President Lee also taught: “Keep in mind that the Church welfare program must begin with you personally and individually. It must begin with every member of the Church. … You have to act for yourself and be a participant before the welfare program is active in your household. Moving out from there, then, to quorums, to united teamwork … tremendous results can come.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 5 Apr. 1969.)“May the Lord help us to understand these fundamentals, and guide us to that destiny which … is … to attain, a full consecration, wherein we consecrate our lives, all that we have and are … for the upbuilding of the kingdom. Then only can we develop the faith necessary to an exaltation in the celestial kingdom.” (Harold B. Lee, address delivered at Welfare Agricultural meeting, 5 Oct. 1968.)President Romney has said, “Both history and prophecy—and, I may add, common sense—bear witness to the fact that no civilization can long endure which follows the course charted by bemused manipulators and now being implemented as government welfare programs all around the world.“Babylon shall be destroyed, and great shall be the fall thereof. (See “But do not be discouraged. Zion will not go down with her, because Zion shall be built on the principles of love of God and fellowman, work, and earnest labor, as God has directed. …“As we prepare for the building of Zion, we must not and we shall not abandon the basic principles upon which our Church Welfare Services are founded: —love of God and neighbor—and  or labor.” (In  Apr. 1976, p. 169.)Elsewhere he states, “Almost from the beginning of my service in Church welfare I have had the conviction that what we are doing in this welfare work is preliminary to the reestablishment of the law of consecration and stewardship as required under the united order. If we could always remember the goal toward which we are working, we would never lose our bearings in this great work.” (In  Apr. 1977, p. 118.)Now, brethren, listen to Alma’s landmark counsel for leaders: “And he commanded them [the leaders] that they should teach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets.”  We are under that same obligation.President Tanner said that President Romney was the best informed and greatest authority in the Church today on welfare programs. In the last few years President Romney has restated and expounded the fundamental principles of the welfare program. The major addresses of the welfare sessions have been reported in the conference editions of the  magazine for the last five conferences.The preventive aspects of the welfare program can and must be accomplished by you quorum leaders learning, teaching, and implementing these principles. Besides the preventive work, there is the work of rehabilitation. The individual who is in need of sustenant help should be built back into a self-supporting member of the Church. This is the work of the priesthood quorums as Elder Hinckley illustrated so beautifully six months ago. The quorum must help its weakened members.Likewise, on you Aaronic Priesthood quorum leaders—including the bishopric, of course—falls the responsibility to teach welfare principles to over half a million young men and women.Often we hear youth say: “What is there to ” In addition to the collection of fast offerings by the deacons, some of the finest opportunities lie in the area of Welfare Services. Brethren, build into your programs the excellent activities suggested in the  and  Here is a sampling of the useful and interesting ways in which youth can participate in home storage and Welfare Services activities: store and preserve food and water, store firewood and make newspaper logs, prepare an inventory of family possessions, plant a garden, build a compost pile and make an outdoor storage pit, prune fruit trees, make shopping comparisons, learn about proper diet, cook game fish or meat, clean a house, repair an electrical cord, replace a water faucet, paint the interior and exterior of a house, and enjoy a festival of homemaking skills.Each of these ideas has other suggested projects that are both fun and useful.Brothers and sisters, I have reviewed briefly these principles. They are true. You can live them. Now I give a word of caution, even warning. The word  or  appears in scripture twenty-five times, generally to condemn those who were slow to act. As we watched that sloth hanging in the tree, it reached out ever so slowly to pull off a leaf, then slower still brought it back and put it into its mouth. As we watched it we could understand the words  The Savior’s reference to the sloth and slothfulness illustrates His displeasure and impatience with the person who is slow to act, who is slothful. Brethren and sisters, our generation has been counseled patiently for more than forty years. It is no longer optional to learn and teach and implement these principles. It is crucial!This work is divine. It will yet save and exalt us. That exaltation will come by living this law. May we in unity rise to this challenge and do it, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.“Sunrise, sunset—swiftly fly the years. …” (From  1964.)Those lines from the poignant song bring a memory of two friends who, like the father and mother portrayed in  did not “remember getting older.” The man was about sixty-three and the woman fifty-five. Both were healthy, happy, and employed in work they enjoyed.One day the man was told he must take an immediate retirement. On the Monday morning the retirement took effect, the husband watched his wife prepare to leave for work. He realized that he would be home alone with nothing to do. He had no occupation, no hobbies, no special interests, and no plans for the future.As he followed his wife to the door that morning, he exclaimed in anguish, “What’s going to happen to me? What can I do?”What, indeed, was there for this man to do, who one day was at the peak of his career and the next day was classified among the elderly unemployed? He was left to try to find a new life for himself or to vegetate and die. Sadly I add that within a brief time he did die.Now there are those who would say that this crisis in the lives of my friends was inevitable. This, of course, is true. Aging is a natural process.President N. Eldon Tanner has counseled: “People of all ages must realize that one day they could be old. … A time for which we should all prepare.” (“Preparing for Old Age,” Dec. 1976, p. 4.)Many different circumstances and factors affect the quality of a person’s life in the later years. But there is a corollary between preparing for old age and enjoying it when it comes. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.” May I suggest a few preparations?First, we can begin now to develop good attitudes toward the later years. We can learn to respect the wisdom, experience, and value of older people. We can strengthen our family ties and appreciate the assets of many generations in a family: the children, youth, adults—including the elderly.With careful planning, a family can have loving, rewarding experiences in caring for its elderly members. There is no better way to teach children respect for the elderly and the need for everyone to prepare for that time in life than by helping to care for their older relatives.Second, we can practice the principles of financial preparedness by living within our means and saving for the time when our earnings cease.Third, we can make service to others a lifetime habit; the older years may bring even more time for service as the hours once devoted to earning a livelihood or rearing a family can be used to enrich the lives of others through church and community service.We can also enrich our own lives by learning new skills after our full-time occupation has relaxed its demands. Learning should be a lifetime pursuit.Finally, good health practices pay important dividends in later years. Our physical health can be enhanced when we keep the Word of Wisdom, eat a well-balanced diet every day, practice good dental hygiene, control weight, get adequate sleep and rest, maintain a physical fitness program, and adhere to medical procedures which insure a healthy life.Some who reach retirement age seem to feel, “I’ve done my share. Now it’s someone else’s turn.” But withdrawal, according to gerontologists and others who work with the aging, can actually hasten the aging process.My Aunt Martha is soon to be ninety-five years of age. I’d challenge almost anyone to keep up with her. There seems to be no end to what she finds to do. She attends civic meetings. She studies her Church lesson assignments and makes appropriate contributions to classroom discussions. In a time of need, she is the first one to render compassionate service. I’ve heard many people say that the bowl of hot soup she brought was just what they needed. Was it the food or the loving concern which was special?Sisters in her visiting teaching district know she will be there early in the month. She attends two or three sessions each time she goes to the temple. She keeps current her genealogical records, helps with the housework and gardening.But I think her greatest joy is missionary work. She filled a mission in Southern California when she was seventy-five years of age, and since then I don’t suppose she has let a single opportunity to share the gospel pass her by. She loves and is loved. She is grateful for life and lives each moment fully.Priesthood and Relief Society leaders must be aware of the great potential of those like Aunt Martha who are in their later years and can give useful service. Besides the traditional assignments for the elderly, we suggest substitute-grandparenting; teaching in mini-classes such skills as knitting, crocheting, gardening, breadmaking, and quilting, or other skills which younger women often need to learn. They might read to the visually handicapped, compile family and ward histories, write letters for those who need such help, or teach those who wish to learn to read or write.A wonderful world of service may emerge for those with time and skills to offer!So far, I have been speaking about the independent elderly, but there are many aged people who are dependent. Some are partially bedridden; others are senile or physically incapacitated. These older people must not be neglected. Some may be adequately cared for in their own homes with the aid of such services as meals brought in to them each day, housekeeping, shopping, out-patient medical services, and a daily telephone check, while other older people need twenty-four-hour care and attention. Often, even though families give this loving care to the elderly, they and the elderly need supportive services from others.Relief Society and priesthood leaders should be particularly aware of the needs of these families and their elderly members.The dependent elderly need the kindness and the attention of loving friends and visiting and home teachers. A busy mother in a home may need a few hours’ respite from the constant care of an older person, just as a young mother does from the constant care of young children. Relief Society Assigned Compassionate Service could be a natural response to this need.There may be times when the medical and physical needs of the aged can only be met by institutional care. When this is necessary, Relief Society and priesthood leaders may assist family members by helping evaluate the appropriateness of the institution.And after a family member enters a health care institution, the family and the Church need to continue their supportive interest with regular visits and expressions of love. Visiting teachers, and, where appropriate, special nursing-home Relief Society sessions, can be a blessing to sisters in such institutions.Church members will be led to a greater understanding of their responsibilities regarding the aged if a stake uses the new BYU film production  as the focus of a discussion on the needs and contributions of its elderly members.When the time of old age comes upon us—and it surely will, for “swiftly fly the years,” as the song says—we need to come to that time with a courage born of faith and of preparation. Underlying all we do for ourselves and for our own, we must remember the aged with the compassionate spirit of Christ in whose work we are engaged.May the cry of the psalmist ring in our hearts:“Cast me not off in the time of old age;“Forsake me not when my strength faileth.” I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.