Today in many places of the world it is harvest time. Crops are being gathered for the use and benefit of all mankind. Besides being an appropriate time for all of us to give thanks, harvest time should be a time of personal contemplation, evaluation, and planning. In farming or in just plain living, what contributes to a successful harvest? What can we do to ensure better crops and production? On the other hand, what could cause us to forfeit the harvest?In the thirteenth chapter of Matthew, by use of the parable of the sower, the Savior points out conditions that cause crop failure. He answers the question, “Who will forfeit the harvest?” His warnings and observations are worthy. The same stony places are with us now; and unless we are mindful, our personal harvest can be lost.“Behold, a sower went forth to sow;“And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side and the fowls came and devoured them up:“Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth:“And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away.“But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.” The promise of the harvest is there for those who receive the seed unto good ground and establish roots that are strong.Let me share with you four prevalent conditions on the horizon today that can cause us to lose the harvest.1.  When Jesus had taught with such profound wisdom, judgment, and skill, some of those closest to him were astonished by his amazing abilities and miracles, and said, “Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? is not his mother called Mary? …“are they not all with us?”  italics added.) They were mightily impressed, even astonished, at his words and works, but had difficulty accepting the source. “Is not this the carpenter’s son? … are they not all with us?”Today some are sowing seeds on stony places because they, too, doubt the authority of those who give counsel and direction. There is a tendency on the part of some to ignore, criticize, or rebel because they cannot accept the  Some will not accept Jesus Christ as the Savior because they are waiting for a Prince of Peace to come who is not quite as human as Jesus of Nazareth. Questions such as, “Is not this the carpenter’s son?”  “Is not this the one born in a manger?” “Can any good … come out of Nazareth?”  are evidences of the weakness of men who are unwilling to accept the human qualities of those who are called and raised up to give direction and counsel.We, too, should not be deceived by doubters who would use the same tactics by planting thorns to destroy the harvest. How can we avoid crop failure in this area of concern? By not allowing our roots to be withered away by winds and storms of: “Is not this the one who was raised in Arizona?” “Is not this the one who came from Canada?” “Is not this the one who was born in Mexico?” “Go to our new bishop for counsel? Is not he the one who lives just up the street?”We read in Matthew:“And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house.“And he did  many mighty works there because of their unbelief.”  italics added.)The concept that “a prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house” was a tragedy for these Galilean people. Shortly after this time Jesus left Nazareth and the Galilean ministry to concentrate most of his efforts in the southern part of the country nearer Jerusalem. Think of what miracles, manifestations, and healings of body and soul might have been enjoyed by these people if their faith had been sufficient to accept the great works of his faith. But he left them, never really to return again.Sadly enough, I think we see this around us now. Someone who daily walks and talks and enjoys the presence of a Joseph Smith or a Spencer W. Kimball, but who is still essentially without faith, may have great difficulty in accepting them as prophets. I remember President Harold B. Lee telling the story of a very prominent man from New York who could not accept Joseph Smith as a prophet because he was “too close to me” (“The Place of the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator,” address to seminary and institute of religion faculty, Brigham Young University, 8 July 1964, p. 2).Will we forfeit the harvest because we cannot accept direction, revelation, or counsel from someone who just lives down the street, in the ward, or in the stake? Will we reject leadership from the churchman who is human, with frailties, and who has family members who may be quite human also?While we are struggling with an “Is-not-this-the-carpenter’s-son?” [see  attitude, we may be missing the truth, the way, and the ultimate harvest. Jesus was not accepted as the Only Begotten Son of God because thousands preferred to recognize him as “just the child of Mary.”The worth and significance of a President Joseph Fielding Smith, Brigham Young, or Joseph Smith is not measured by his physical stature, wearing apparel, or public image. Whether eternal truths were taught by one who dwelled near the Sea of Galilee or by one who lived in upstate New York, the size, origin, image, or popularity of the teachers can not detract from the value of the truths which they shared.Safety can be assured for us if “we believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God”  May I add, these revelations will come through people—even the prophets with human qualities.2.  If we are unable to accept change, in the language of the parable of the sower, we are those with no root.“Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended” If our roots are deep, we will welcome continuing revelation, change, and direction. We will develop the ability to accept releases, callings, and new challenges with enthusiasm. We will be too busy to be offended. We will be too big to be hurt. We will serve wherever we are called with anxious dedication. We will accept people for what they are and what they can and do become. Change will not only drive our roots deeper but cause them to grow into new and fertile soil.Some years ago a young mother of my acquaintance shared this event in her life. She had been active in youth activities in the ward for several years and was at the time president of the young women. The stake president called one day and asked her to meet with the stake presidency the following Sunday afternoon. With anxiety in her voice and tears close to the surface, she went to her husband and said, I’m afraid they want me for a stake job. I don’t want a stake job. I love the ward. I love the youth in the ward. I love my counselors. I love my job. I don’t want to change.”Her husband said, “Please go and see what they want. I’ll support you in any assignment.”Her fears were realized. She was asked to be stake president of the Young Women. Later, the stake president told her that after she had reluctantly accepted the call, he had never seen a more forlorn-looking person walk out of his office.For over six years she, with the same sisters as counselors, took care of the stake work for the young women. “Those were some of the best years of service for me,” she said. “My horizons expanded. I became acquainted with the wonderful leaders and great young people in our stake. I even had leadership experiences with other fine leaders in the whole valley. Later the opportunity came to serve on a general board. I shudder to think what I would have missed if I had declined the change in assignments.”Our Father in Heaven knows what we need. Change can be difficult. Change can be fearful. But change in the right direction is a growing process. Each new assignment, each new experience in the gospel framework, if fulfilled to the best of one’s ability, adds new strengths.Resistance to and resentment of change, of new assignments, of new opportunities are stony places that may keep our roots in the gospel from going deep and growing strong.It was Theodore I. Rubin who wisely said, “If we let it, life produces endless experiences that demand change. If you are motivated and willing to struggle, you can change and grow for  This is the challenge, the pain and the joy of being human.”Sometimes we are unwise and even cruel in our unwillingness to accept change in others. I recently learned of a man who raised his family and pursued his professional life in a small country town. He was not without his problems but was a good man with a great heart who loved the Lord and the gospel. Mistakes, even small ones, are not soon forgotten in some neighborhoods, however; and he never seemed to be “allowed” to grow, blossom, develop, and change into what he could become.As a missionary serving overseas, he had made a remarkable contribution. The mission president said he had done more to bridge the cultural gap between the two countries than any other adult American was able to do. Yet when his mission was over, he returned to the small town; and without malice or evil intent but with the insistent burden of memory, his neighbors did not invite him or let him be the man he had become, but rather seemed quite prepared to see him as the less attractive man of an earlier period.Because of their expectations, he completed the last years of his life much less happy and much less involved and surely much less productive to the kingdom than he had been for that one glorious period where people in a new land and in a different time allowed him to change and to be what he really wanted to be and, in his heart, really was.Let me share one other example. A friend of mine went to school with a boy who did not have much home life and for whom the gospel did not mean as much as it later would. He drank a little and caroused a little; but later, after moving away from his home town, he became very active in the Church. His one dream was to return to his home town and start a business, which he tried to do. But unfortunately, as with the other man, the people in the community insisted on treating him as he had been, not as what he had become. He finally moved away and is doing remarkably well in business and in the Church. He recently expressed to my friend how deeply disappointed he was that his former friends and townspeople had not let him “come home,” even in a gospel sense.3.  These are they who may forfeit the harvest because they will not be obedient. “Hearing they hear not, neither do they understand” is the description the parable of the sower uses to describe those who fall into this vulnerable territory “And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them”  We, too, will fall among the thorns and be led away from our promised blessings if we fail in obedience.I was very impressed a few days ago when I heard an eager, reactivated elder say, “I’m back in the Church and active today because my elders quorum president came to see me when I didn’t want to be seen, and loved me when I didn’t want to be loved.” Here is an elders quorum president obediently doing his job as it should be done.Sometimes when we are asked to be obedient, we do not know why, except the Lord has commanded. From  we read, “Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not.” Nephi followed instructions even though he didn’t fully understand the wise purpose. His obedience resulted in blessings to mankind all over the world. By not obeying our present-day leaders, we plant our seeds in stony places and may forfeit the harvest.4.  The parable of the sower would refer to these as those who have no deepness. They are those without commitment or testimony. These are those who would be convenience members. Some testimonies spring up quickly and flourish for a while until the heat comes on or a stony place is encountered. Then the withering starts to take place.“Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no  of earth”  italics added).Deep and enduring testimonies grow and strengthen as they are daily nurtured. They increase as they are shared. Meaningful testimonies have roots planted in fertile soil. The sun, the rain, and even the storms make them stronger and more durable. As the events of daily life come upon us, some testimonies wither under the heat of everyday occurrences. Roots are shallow, testimonies fade, and there is no harvest.Let us seek to be totally committed. Then we will not fall upon stony places, wither away, or stray from the paths of security and happiness. Those who serve with complete dedication wherever called do not wilt, wither, wonder, or wander. Their roots are deep and solidly planted in the fertile soils of the kingdom. The harvest is enjoyed with every passing day as they serve.Let us not forfeit the harvest. If we forfeit the harvest, what do we lose? We lose day by day pleasures of growth and development that come from doing our tasks in the framework of the gospel. We lose the satisfaction of accomplishing difficult tasks and serving better.Most of all, we forfeit the gift of eternal growth and progress. May we avoid the stony places of (1) unwillingness to accept human qualities, (2) unwillingness to accept change, (3) unwillingness to follow instructions, and (4) unwillingness to be totally committed. By so doing we can establish deep, strong roots and thus reap the harvest our Father in Heaven wants for all his children. For this I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.The choir sang so beautifully “God of Our Fathers” at the beginning of the meeting, and the prayer was addressed to “Our Father who art in heaven.” Then the choir sang the song “’Tis Sweet to Sing the Matchless Love,” referring to Christ. This morning I should like to talk about God and his relationship to man. I humbly pray that the Spirit and blessings of the Lord will be with us as I speak to you.A simple opening statement in the Bible is, “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth”  and therein is to be found the basis for man’s belief in God, his omnipotence, his love, and the reason for man’s existence in this mortal state.As we read on in that first chapter of Genesis, we learn of the great organization of this earth—the division of light from darkness, the earth from the heavens; the bringing forth of grass, the herb yielding seed, and fruit; the appearance of the sun, moon, and stars; the creation of fish, fowl, and animals. And finally “God created man in his own image … male and female created he them” Beyond reading these and other scriptural evidences of the existence of God, how well do we really know God, our Creator, and how well do we really understand his personality, characteristics, and attributes? Belief in the fact that God exists is of first importance, but it is not  that is necessary in order to exercise an intelligent faith that will lead us back into his presence for eternal life with him.In addition to a belief in the existence of God, we must know something of his character and attributes or our faith will be imperfect and unfruitful. Faith will avail us nothing unless it is based on true principles. This is illustrated in a story I have told before about the meeting of the Indians with the Europeans when they first began their explorations in the New World. The Indians were amazed at the power and explosive qualities of gunpowder and asked many questions about how it was produced. Taking advantage of the ignorance of the savages and seeing an opportunity to increase their wealth through deception, the Europeans told them it came from the seed of a plant. The Indians believed them and purchased some seed in exchange for gold. They carefully planted the seed and watched it grow, but of course they did not get any gunpowder. No matter how sincere one’s belief may be in an error, it will not change the error into truth.So it is with our belief in God. Unless we know him and understand his nature and character, we cannot have perfect faith in him. There was no question about God in Old Testament times. He walked and talked with Adam and Eve, and even after their transgression they continued to call upon him and to sacrifice to him. He gave them commandments which they obeyed.Cain and Abel learned of God from the teachings of their parents, as well as from personal revelations. After the acceptance of Abel’s offering and the rejection of that of Cain, followed by Cain’s crime of fratricide, God talked with Cain and Cain answered.Adam lived for nine hundred and thirty years, during which time he could give personal testimony to eight generations of his descendants, down to Lamech, the father of Noah. (See  Through Noah and his family, a knowledge of God by direct tradition was carried beyond the Flood; moreover, Noah held direct communication with God and lived to instruct ten generations of his descendants. (See  There followed Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob (or Israel), and among the children of Israel, God wrought great wonders. (See  He made himself known by various means of communication to Moses, who even beheld the “similitude” of God (see  and this account of direct communication has been preserved by Israel through all generations.In addition to history and tradition, human reason declares the existence of God. We find this confirmed in nature all around us. I quote from Elder James E. Talmage, a noted scientist of his day:“The observer is impressed by the manifest order and system in creation; he notes the regular succession of day and night providing alternate periods of work and rest for man, animals, and plants; the sequence of the seasons, each with its longer periods of activity and recuperation; the mutual dependence of animals and plants; the circulation of water from sea to cloud, from cloud to earth again, with beneficent effect. As man proceeds to the closer examination of things he finds that by study and scientific investigation these proofs are multiplied many fold. He may learn of the laws by which the earth and its associated worlds are governed in their orbits; by which satellites are held subordinate to planets, and planets to suns; he may behold the marvels of vegetable and animal anatomy, and the surpassing mechanism of his own body; and with such appeals to his reason increasing at every step, his wonder as to who ordained all this gives place to adoration for the Creator whose presence and power are thus so forcefully proclaimed; and the observer becomes a worshiper.” ( 42nd ed., Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1961, pp. 32–33.)With all this evidence it is hard to understand how some can doubt the very existence of God. The early scriptures do not attempt to demonstrate God’s existence or to argue on the sophistries of atheism, so it seems that the errors of doubt crept in at some later time. With the death of Christ and the apostles, and during the period of apostasy when revelation ceased, the simple, consistent, and authentic doctrine about the character and attributes of God became distorted, and numerous theories and dogmas of men appeared, many of which are utterly mystical and incomprehensible.Seeking to end the many disagreements and arguments regarding the Godhead which were prevalent at the time, the emperor Constantine in the year  325 convened the Council of Nice in order that this body might make “a declaration of … belief that would be received as authoritative.” This council brought forth what is known as the Nicene Creed, followed some time later by the Athanasian Creed which reads in part:“We worship one God in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity, neither confounding the persons, nor dividing the substance. For there is one person of the Father, another of the Son, and another of the Holy Ghost. But the Godhead of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, is all one; the glory equal, the majesty coeternal. Such as the Father is, such is the Son, and such is the Holy Ghost. The Father uncreate, the Son uncreate, and the Holy Ghost uncreate. The Father incomprehensible, the Son incomprehensible, and the Holy Ghost incomprehensible. The Father eternal, the Son eternal, and the Holy Ghost eternal. And yet there are not three eternals, but one eternal. As also there are not three incomprehensibles, nor three uncreated; but one uncreated, and one incomprehensible. So likewise the Father is Almighty, the Son Almighty, and the Holy Ghost Almighty; and yet there are not three Almighties, but one Almighty. So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God.” (Talmage,  pp. 47–48.)Elder Talmage said, “It would be difficult to conceive of a greater number of inconsistencies and contradictions expressed in words as few” ( p. 48). And to many, God is just such a mystery, and as incomprehensible.In these latter days God again has revealed himself to man as he did in former times. Biblical prophecies predict a falling away from the true gospel, or an apostasy, and also a restoration, including the manner in which it should come. This great event did actually occur when the Father and the Son appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, who in his generation could and did testify that they were two separate beings and that one said, pointing to the other, “This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!” When he reported his vision, the doubters scoffed, ridiculed, and persecuted him and he said he felt much like Paul when he made his defense before King Agrippa (See “He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise.”Joseph said:“So it was with me. … I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.” Later, through heavenly messengers, Joseph Smith was instructed regarding the reestablishment of the Church of Jesus Christ with the same organization that existed in the primitive church which Christ organized while he was upon the earth, with apostles, prophets, etc. As predicted by ancient prophets, other scriptures came forth, new revelation was given, and the restoration of the gospel was heralded by all who had been waiting for the fulfillment of prophecy.Soon after the organization of the Church in 1830, Joseph Smith prepared thirteen statements which became known as the Articles of Faith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The first one reads as follows:“We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.” Through revelation and the scriptures we know that these three are separate individuals, physically distinct from each other. It is recorded that when the Savior was baptized, John recognized the sign of the Holy Ghost, he saw Jesus in the flesh, and he heard the voice of the Father. Each personage of the Godhead manifested himself separately (see  Later, the Savior separately defined the three members of the Godhead when he told his disciples that when he left them, the Father would send a comforter, who is the Holy Ghost (see Each member of this trinity is called God, and together they constitute the Godhead. As indicated, they are three separate beings, but they are one in purpose, and Jesus repeatedly testified of the unity existing among the three.To those who question or do not understand, let me assure you that every human soul can receive this personal testimony. God may not come in person, as he did to Joseph Smith and others; but through the power of the Holy Ghost, by which all truth is discerned, every person can gain a knowledge for himself that God lives, that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Father, and that he came and dwelt among men to give them the plan of life and salvation.Recently I was reading from a talk given in September 1919 by President Heber J. Grant, the seventh president of the Church. He told of reading a book entitled  written by Senator Albert J. Beveridge. In one chapter called “The Young Man and the Pulpit,” Mr. Beveridge said, according to President Grant, that “any man who enters the pulpit to preach, if he is not converted in his heart of hearts to the truth of that which he preaches, commits a sacrilege every time he stands up in his pulpit.”Then Mr. Beveridge said: “A certain man, with good opportunities for getting correct answers, during an entire summer vacation asked three questions of all the ministers with whom he came in contact. The first question was: ‘Do you believe in God, the Father—God, a person—God, a definite and tangible intelligence—not a congeries of laws floating like a fog through the universe—but God, a person in whose image you were made? Don’t argue; don’t explain; but is your mind in a condition where you can answer yes or no?’ Not a minister answered ‘Yes.’ …The next question in Senator Beveridge’s book was: “‘Yes or no, do you believe that Christ was the Son of the Living God, sent by Him to save the World … , that Christ was God’s very Son, with a divinely appointed and definite mission, dying on the cross and raised from the dead—yes or no?’ Not a minister answered ‘Yes.’”The third question was: “‘Do you believe that when you die you will live again as a conscious intelligence, knowing who you are and who other people are? Answer yes or no.’ Not one answered ‘Yes.’”President Grant went on to explain, as we are able to do today, that every Latter-day Saint—man, woman, and child—who has studied the scriptures and who has a desire to know God and his plan of life and salvation could answer “Yes” to all three questions. (In Conference Report, Oct. 1919, pp. 27–28.)We  that we had a preexistence, that we are here in mortality to prove ourselves worthy to go back into the presence of our Heavenly Father and there enjoy eternal life.This brings us to another article of our faith which declares:“We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel” This declaration is clarified in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith as recorded in the seventy-sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants:“And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us—“That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness.” The Atonement and redemption was taught by Paul, who said, in writing to the Corinthians:“If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.“But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept.“For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.“For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.” Christ said:“Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.“No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.” On another occasion he said:“For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself;“And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.“Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,“And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.” We recall the words of Jesus to Martha when she told him of her brother’s death:“I am the resurrection, and the life: He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.” In a glorious promise, beautifully expressed, the Savior declared:“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.“For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.” From these scriptures we can plainly see the importance of our understanding just what the Atonement is and our responsibility in relation to it. We learn that the Atonement is for —that  will be resurrected from the grave. We will experience the resurrection of life or of damnation. It is clearly stated that we must believe in Jesus Christ, follow him, and keep his commandments.There may be some who feel so burdened with guilt over transgressions of the past that they have lost hope; and there may be some who feel the time is too far spent for them to change the course of their lives. To everyone the gospel plan gives encouragement and hope for a glorious resurrection and eternal life with God through the principle of repentance. The Savior’s plea throughout his ministry was “Repent, and be baptized, and come unto me.” Repentance embodies a recognition of one’s sins, a confession, and a forsaking. The rewards for accepting and living the teachings of Jesus Christ will far exceed the riches of the earth, as we lay up for ourselves treasures in heaven.As a special witness for Christ, I bear my solemn testimony that God lives; that we are his spirit children; that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son in the flesh, and is the Savior of us all; that “God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life”  and that through the Atonement of Christ all mankind can enjoy eternal life by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel.I bear further witness that the gospel in its fulness has been restored in these the latter days; that this church, under the direction of Jesus Christ, is led by a prophet of God, even Spencer W. Kimball. May we all accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and so live as to enjoy eternal life with God, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.