My beloved brethren, it’s a joy to meet with you this conference session. Before beginning, I should like to express my personal appreciation to this great body of men who have sung so melodiously to us this evening.As we announced to the Regional Representatives yesterday, we meet together often in the Church in conferences to worship the Lord, to feast upon the word of Christ, and to be built up by faith and testimony. We hold ward stake, area, and general conferences, among others.In recent years some of our most inspirational conferences have been the area conferences held outside the United States. We plan, beginning in 1979, to hold some area conferences in the United States. Through these area conferences more members of the Church will be able to meet and hear the General Authorities. Two members of the Council of the Twelve and others will attend each conference.To ease the burdens of time, travel, and money upon members of the Church, we have also decided, beginning in 1979, to hold only two stake conferences each year in each stake. One of these will be attended by one or more General Authorities, and the other by the Regional Representative. This will leave more time for stake presidents and other local leaders to do more in perfecting the Saints.And now, my beloved brethren, may I say something about the great priesthood responsibility of fulfilling our role of patriarch in the home. This role becomes more vital with each passing day, as new challenges to the strength and sanctity of the home arise.The family is the basic unit of the kingdom of God on earth. The Church can be no healthier than its families. No government can long endure without strong families.Never before have there been so many insidious influences threatening the family as today, around the world. Many of these evil influences come right into the home—through television, radio, magazines, newspapers, and other forms of literature.Brethren, as patriarchs in your homes, be worthy watchmen. Be concerned about the types of programs your family is watching on television or hearing on radio. There is so much today that is unsavory and degrading, so much that gives the impression that the old sins of Sodom and Gomorrah are the “in thing” to do today.There are magazines today publishing pictures and articles which likewise beckon to the baser instincts of men and women and young people. There are newspapers around the world which, seeking greater circulation, boldly flaunt sex. Some of our newspapers continue to publish illustrated advertisements which are basely provocative, inviting their readers to pornographic motion pictures. It is in such advertisements and motion pictures where seeds are sown for rape, unfaithfulness, and the most repulsive of deviant sexual transgressions.Brethren, be vigilant on what enters your home through the printed word as well as the electronic media. Guard against radio and TV programs that degrade. See that only good reading material enters your home. Subscribe to magazines which enrich the mind and uplift the soul. There are many good magazines, including our own Church periodicals, the  and In some of the large cities of the world such as London, Paris, Tokyo, New York, and Sao Paulo, there are a number of daily newspapers from which to make a choice. Bring to your home that newspaper which is most compatible with the teachings and standards of the Church.Here in Salt Lake City, the world headquarters of the Church, we are also concerned. Certainly a powerful force in helping this city and state achieve its high standards has been the  This newspaper has been a defender of our convictions relative to such moral issues as liquor, pornography, and abortion. It is vital to a safe, clean city and state, which are the heart of our growing, worldwide Church.As the  with the  strengthens our city and state, our newspaper can also strengthen the homes of you brethren residing in this area of the world headquarters of the Church.Brethren, by being alert to what enters your home, you can do much in helping your family seek that which is “virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy.” I had a note one day from a little boy who said, “I know a man who is such a wonderful man, and his name is The Bishop.” We always had a good bishop. We always loved him. There was Bishop Zundel and Bishop Moody and Bishop Tyler and Bishop Wilkins. I loved all my bishops. I hope all my young brethren love their bishops as I did.It is a real joy to meet with you priesthood members at this important time of the year, a time when we think of our Savior, Jesus Christ, and his accomplishments and his service and his example and his great program.He gave to Moses this: “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.” I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the leaders of the organizations and all who serve in this great cause of priesthood activity, for their devotion and strength and power and influence which is worldwide and affects the lives of numerous people. I have been trying to think of the ways in which my life has been influenced by the youth organizations. I cannot remember when I began, but it seems to me like I can remember going to the old Robinson Hall in Thatcher, Arizona, almost as early as I could walk. It was only two blocks from our home, and we could walk to and from it, and we crossed the Union Canal time and again. This big Robinson Hall was a brick building of rectangular shape, and an all-purpose building for the community dances, for the Sunday School and Primary, for all Church services, for the funerals, for celebrations, and for everything that went on in our little rural town.One night this great building caught fire, and I remember the lighted sky and the columns of smoke and the consternation and excitement for all of us, for a big fire like this attracted the entire town and all came hurrying with their buckets to help put out the fire. We had no fire department, but all men and their sons rushed across the town at the earliest call of “fire.”He who gave the leadership sent all the men and boys to the canal bank and lined them back to back toward the burning building. Standing on the bank of the canal, the first man drew a bucket full of water and handed the full bucket to another man and he to another and back to the crackling flames in the building. The last man doused the bucket of water on the flames. Many buckets of water were thrown on the fire, but the fire was gaining and finally the walls stood out as blackened sentinels, and we returned to our homes saddened and defeated. It was many years before the fire department was organized in our little town.This was the same canal in which I was later baptized into the Church, and this is the same canal from which I hauled water to the trees and plant life about our home. I was the smallest of the boys, so I was given this work. We called the transportation a “lizard.” Did any of you ever see a “lizard”? We made it with a Y-shaped tree limb. In the center we fastened a barrel and hitched one horse to the “lizard.” I drove it to the canal, where I dipped up barrels full of canal water, then drove the horse one block to the home where I dipped out the water for the plants and flowers.My father made a great effort to surround the new home with every kind of flower and save them in those late summer days when water was so scarce. It was also my job to drive the horses and cows to the canal for their drinking water.Sometimes the late summer rains would wash out the dams and leave all the valley dry and the canals all dry. Then the older boys, my brothers, answered the call to rush up to the headwaters of the canal with their teams and scrapers and wagons to haul rocks and brush and gravel to fill up the dam again to divert the water from the river to the farms and homes.Years later we learned to make the sausage dams. The sausage dam was a long wire mesh filled with rocks to fill the water holes of the river and divert the river water back into the canal.Nearly all the boys and girls were baptized in that famous old Union Canal.The Allred Hall, a frame structure on Main Street two blocks north of Robinson Hall, was used for many purposes, and I can remember going there to Sunday School and Primary as a little boy and to sacrament meeting, for it was here that I was confirmed as a member of the Church.We moved again to the old Allred Hall and then to the Academy Building, which was our educational institution and headquarters for the Polysophical Society meetings as well as all community and Church meetings, for Thatcher was populated almost entirely by members of the Church.Then in 1902 we broke ground for a new stake and ward building in Thatcher, and I gave two dollars from my nickels and dimes for the building. I remember they dug a great excavation and then there was a long delay before enough more funds could be gathered to construct the building. This was on the way to the post office and the stores where I was often sent to get coal oil for the lamps and for mail and to take the eggs and other things that my abilities made possible. I would always run down into the bottom of this great excavation hole and then up the other side; but when the weeds began to grow big in this enclosed area and I once saw some skunks there, I bypassed the excavation, for I had no interest in skunks as pets or as companions.When the new stake building—which still stands and is being used for stake and ward purposes—was completed, it had just two large, rectangular areas, one for the meetinghouse on the top floor and one for recreation, the latter being the basement. I remember we had wires strung across the building and cloth curtains between the classes. We could hear something of nearly every class that was going on and even sometimes see, if the lights were just right. I remember some years later when we of the basketball team of the Gila Academy did our practicing here and played our games, and I always took more than my share of the credit for the fact that in this smaller building with some obstructions, we defeated some high school and college teams while we were but a high school team.I remember some of the teachers. We always went to priesthood meeting on Monday nights, and we deacons would congregate around the potbellied stove and there receive our instructions. I remember some excellent teachers in Orville Allen and LeRoi C. Snow and others in that place, and also formed some excellent friendships among other young men of my age. LeRoi C. Snow of Salt Lake City was there in the bank, and he intrigued us as we became deacons with his many stories of the Red Sea, and the crossing of the Red Sea by the children of Israel, and Jerusalem where he had been.I remember going to Sunday School, and I believe that I received a great deal of inspiration for the foundation of my life in this place. We had opening exercises in the chapel above and then went downstairs to our classwork.I remember some of the teachers who came so devotedly and consistently to give us “the word,” and they taught me many things which are basic to my acquaintance with the Church programs and the doctrines.My mother had a good voice and played the organ, and she and my oldest sister, Clare, sang duets. I inherited a little of the love for music from her, so I was always interested in the singing of the songs, and I generally raised my voice and sang lustily. I remember the song, “We Meet Again in Sabbath School.” ( no. 193.) And we did meet again and again and again, all my life. And I remember when my mother died up in Salt Lake City when I was eleven, there had been a goal set for us to attend Sunday School every Sunday of the year. She died in October. I had never missed a Sunday School since the first of January, I had been present every week, and I had a difficult time to square myself with myself to miss the Sunday that her body lay in state in our home.I really didn’t understand then how hard these teachers labored to teach us, and how grateful I am for the great army of teachers in all the organizations of the Church who are so devoted and untiring to teach the children of Zion.And then, if sometimes we had forgotten the verses, we could all join lustily in singing the chorus of the songs:The song “Love at Home” ( no. 169) we sang in our home evenings, which the Kimball family always held in the early days of this century.I remember the song “In Our Lovely Deseret,” which Sister Eliza R. Snow wrote. She composed many of our songs. I can remember how lustily we sang:I am not sure how much innocence and love we had, but I remember we sang it, even straining our little voices to reach the high E which was pretty high for children’s voices. I remember we sang:I wanted to live a long time and I wanted to be beautiful and strong—but never reached it.And I learned to despise them. There were people in our rural community who were members of the Church who sometimes used tea and coffee and sometimes tobacco. The song goes on:[I still don’t eat very much meat.]And then we’d “Hark! Hark! Hark” again, “… When in innocence and love Like the angels up above.” And then the third verse went:And then we’d “Hark! Hark! Hark” again.And then we’d sing, “Hark! Hark! Hark” again. I was never quite sure whether the angels were limited in their voice culture as we were, but we were glad to take the credit.One of the songs that has disappeared was number 163, “Don’t Kill the Little Birds,” and I remember many times singing with a loud voice:I had a sling and I had a flipper. I made them myself, and they worked very well. It was my duty to walk the cows to the pasture a mile away from home. There were large cottonwood trees lining the road, and I remember that it was quite a temptation to shoot the little birds “that sing on bush and tree,” because I was a pretty good shot and I could hit a post at fifty yards’ distance or I could hit the trunk of a tree. But I think perhaps because I sang nearly every Sunday, “Don’t Kill the Little Birds,” I was restrained. The second verse goes:This made a real impression on me, so I could see no great fun in having a beautiful little bird fall at my feet.And then there was the song that Evan Stephens wrote, “The Mormon Boy,” and how proud I was when we were to sing in the congregation:I liked this song; I have always gloried in those words: “I might be envied by a king, For I am a ‘Mormon’ Boy.”I liked the song “What Shall the Harvest Be?” because it gave us a chance to sing in parts.My beloved brethren, as I close I bear testimony to you that I hold the priesthood.  hold the priesthood. This is the priesthood that Elijah held, and the prophets Peter, James, and John also. They and their associates held the priesthood. But without the sealing power we could do nothing, for there would be no validity to that which we do. That’s the thing that counts. That is why Elijah came. That is why Moses came, for he conferred upon the head of Peter, James, and John in that dispensation these privileges and these powers, these keys, that they might go forth and perform this labor. That is why they came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Lord said, “I will send you Elijah the prophet before … the great and dreadful day of the Lord.” Why should he send Elijah? Because he held the keys of the authority to administer in all the ordinances of the priesthood, and without the authority that is given, the ordinances could not be administered in righteousness.Salvation could not come to this world without the mediation of Jesus Christ. How shall God come to the rescue of the generations? He will send Elijah the prophet. The law revealed to Moses in Horeb never was revealed to the children of Israel as a nation. Elijah shall reveal the covenants to seal the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers. The anointing and sealing is to be called, elected, and the election made sure.“I know that God lives. I know that Jesus Christ lives,” said John Taylor, my predecessor, “for I have seen him.” I bear this testimony to you brethren in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.It is now my privilege and responsibility to address you for just a few minutes. I certainly have enjoyed—and I hope all the young men and priesthood holders, wherever you are, have enjoyed and appreciated—the talks that have been given and this fine music which we have heard.As I look out upon those gathered here tonight and think of the thousands listening in, I realize that I am talking to priesthood leaders, priesthood holders, and those who will assume positions of leadership in the future. Those who are leaders now should already have become men of integrity, men with character, men whose ideals and standards are of the highest quality, worthy of emulation by those whom they lead. So tonight I, along with the others who have addressed you, want to direct my remarks to the young men who will come up through the ranks of the Aaronic Priesthood and eventually take over the jobs we older fellows now hold. Yes, no doubt one of you will some day be standing here at this pulpit as one of the General Authorities of the Church. One of you may even become the President, and certainly as you remain true and faithful and keep the commandments, you will all advance in the kingdom of God.What an awesome thought! How necessary and important it is that we all continually strive to improve ourselves and prepare for the day when a call might come to serve in a new or more responsible position! The whole purpose of our existence in mortality is to build the kingdom of God and to prove ourselves worthy to go back into his presence. You are here tonight because you sense this responsibility and want to be numbered among those whom the Lord will call his own.What must you do that you are not already doing? As I think about this and the requirements that we must meet in order to be capable and profitable servants, it seems to boil down to a matter of being worthy of a proper recommendation by someone in authority.The First Presidency and some other General Authorities are currently preparing for a series of area conferences in far-flung locations where we have members of the Church. As we make these preparations it is necessary that we have passports or visas or tourist cards in order to satisfy the requirements of the governments of the countries which we will visit. These credentials must be properly endorsed by the respective authorities involved, and only after conforming to all the regulations can we receive our papers which will allow us to enter the countries of our choice.Not long ago Elder David Haight of the Council of the Twelve had been assigned to a stake conference in Mexico. As he reached the border, he found that he did not have with him the necessary papers which would allow him to enter the country. In spite of his plea and the urgency of his mission, the officials had no authority to admit him without proper credentials. Therefore, he could not attend the conference.So it is with our progress in the priesthood. We must be properly recommended and endorsed by those in authority before we can advance from one office to another, and we cannot receive the certification or proof of our advancement without being worthy, or meeting the requirements. It will be so when we want to enter the kingdom of heaven to join with others who have gone before, and live eternally with God, our Father.It is true that some steal across the line to other countries without credentials, but if and when discovered they are penalized and deported according to the law. In the Church, some who are guilty of transgression will lie to be advanced in the priesthood, to go on missions, or to enter the temple. But the Lord knows, and they cannot expect to enjoy his blessings.Throughout my life in government, in industry, and in the Church, I have had many people ask me for letters of recommendation or reference to assist them in obtaining employment or a promotion. I also have had heads of industry or government ask for my recommendation regarding certain individuals whom they may be considering for employment.It is always with a feeling of pleasure and satisfaction when I can respond that the individual is worthy of their consideration, that he is honest, dependable, has done well in school, gets along well with people, is a willing worker, does not procrastinate, and is loyal and trustworthy. Under such circumstances I add that I can recommend him without any reservation, and state that he will be an asset to the company.It is with sadness that I respond when I cannot recommend an individual without reservation because of some undesirable traits of character or some quality which in my judgment would keep him from performing to the satisfaction of his employer. In fact, I usually say that I am not in a position to vouch for him, or I do not respond to the query. It is as important that I be honest in my letter of reference as that the prospective employee be an honest and upright individual.When choosing a vocation, one should consider what his personal qualifications are; that is, if he chooses to be a medical doctor, he, in addition to possessing the qualities which should be part of each man’s character, such as good morals, honesty, integrity, dependability, etc., should be sensitive to the well-being of people, and go into the profession not only because it can be very lucrative, but also because he is really concerned and interested in improving the health of mankind. A doctor must be someone who will be prepared to give of his time at any hour of the day or night without thought for his own comfort and convenience.If one wants to be an airline pilot, he should be able to think and react calmly and clearly in the face of unforeseen or unexpected occurrences in the performance of his duties. A lawyer needs the ability to express himself well in both the spoken and written word. A salesman must have enthusiasm and be able to meet people well; he must have the ability to convince people whom he is trying to convert to his product. A secretary or receptionist must be able to keep confidences and to help create an atmosphere of friendliness and helpfulness in the office where people wait for their appointments.So you see, for every type of job classification there are some basic and some specialized qualifications necessary to perform the required work with the greatest efficiency. All through our lives we should be preparing ourselves with a combination of the characteristics essential to filling our niche in life.A few years ago the Church distributed to our young people a series of small cards with a picture on one side and a message on the other. The series was called “Be Honest with Yourself.” I quote from one of these with a heading, “Can You Pass This Test?”“Here is a classroom during an examination hour. The students are unwatched—the teacher has put them on their honor. Except for their own consciences and the disapproval of classmates, they are completely free to peek into those reference books or look over the shoulders of their classmates for easy answers. What will they do? What would you do?“None of these reasons is an honest reason; none will hold up in the test of time and conscience. Cheating is dishonest wherever you find it—always was and always will be.“The first cheater was Satan, ‘the father of lies.’ He tried to cheat our premortal spirits out of our birthright to free agency and eternal progression. Satan lost. Cheaters never really win.“When anyone cheats, whether by taking help to pass a school test or through more flagrant forms of dishonesty, he cheats himself first.“Don’t do it! Always, in all ways—”This training in honesty begins in the home. Each of us has personal possessions which are ours alone. We can and should share such things as toys and games and our services to one another; but we have money, or jewelry, or clothing that is the personal property of each and should not be taken without the consent of the owner. A child who respects such honesty in the home is not apt to violate the principle outside the home. On the other hand, lack of such training fosters disrespect for the rights and property of others.I realize that young people today are under a lot of pressure from outside influences and feel that in order to be popular they have to go along with their friends on some things which are against their personal standards. But I implore you to consider the consequences of compromising your principles which may adversely affect your whole life.As a child matures and starts working for money, whether for his parents or his neighbors, he will deal honestly and give honest labor for the returns he gets. Often the earliest employment for a young man is as a newsboy. Countless numbers of our successful businessmen today got their start in this occupation. They learned to be prompt and dependable. I knew a newsboy who always had his papers delivered on time regardless of the weather, and he handled his collections in a pleasant, courteous, and businesslike manner. He had many satisfied customers and had no difficulty in getting new subscriptions. This early training helped him to become a most successful businessman.Another boy I knew—and I have known several like him—did not deliver his papers on time, got mixed up on his collections, and the news office had so many complaints about him that they had to replace him. It is not  work we do, but  we do it that counts.When I was president of TransCanada Pipelines, we had an office boy who did only what we asked him to do. He would wait until called to run an errand, or stand around waiting for instructions, never offering to be helpful. As the company grew and the job became more than he could handle, we hired another lad, even younger, who was alert and always looking for extra things to do to be helpful. He would finish an errand and then see or ask for something else to do. In just a few months one of the departments wanted him for a position of greater responsibility, and within two years he had three advancements, salary increases, and more responsibilities. The other lad remained an errand boy.I remember, too, serving as a Scoutmaster, and noticing the differences in the boys. Some were alert and anxious to learn, to keep the Scout Oath and Promise, to be of service, and to learn all they could about taking care of themselves under all conditions. There would be many stories to tell about Scouts who had saved their own lives and the lives of others through the training which they received as they took advantage of their opportunities. There were other Scouts who did as little as they could and were only interested in seeing how much foolishness they could get away with. I always wanted the boys to have a good time as long as they were honest and dependable and determined to keep the Scout Oath and Promise and complete their training.I remember so well one of the chief Scouts in England, who, when he was in the army during the war, had the responsibility of selecting soldiers for highly confidential missions. He was always happy, he said, when he found a man who had been a good Scout and could put his arm to the square with his three fingers extended and say that he kept the Scout Law and the Scout Promise. He said he did not hesitate to recommend a man under those conditions because he knew that he could depend on him, and knew then that he was trustworthy. He said he was never let down by such a man.Let me give you an example of how important it is to put first things first if you are to be successful in life. As a boy I was raised on a farm, where I remained until I went away to school. I had observed how a farmer on one side of the road was very successful, while one on the other side was almost a failure as a farmer. What made the difference? They received the same amount of sunshine and rain. They planted the same kind of seeds. But one had beautiful and bounteous crops, while the other had no harvest or a poor one.I observed that the successful farmer worked at his job. He would do his plowing, discing, harrowing, seeding, and harvesting in the proper season and at the proper time, while his neighbor was procrastinating, or off hunting and fishing while the work was still to be done. We must learn to set our priorities straight. No one can be successful in his line of work unless he works at it in the proper season and plays in the proper season.Work is a great antidote for many things. On the wall of a reception room at a well-known neurological institute hangs a card, intended not for the sick, but for the well:“If you are poor, work. If you are rich, work. If you are burdened with seemingly unfair responsibilities, work.“If you are happy, continue to work; idleness gives room for doubts and fears. If sorrow overwhelms you, and loved ones seem not true, work. If disappointments come, work.“If faith falters and reason fails, just work. When dreams are shattered and hopes seem dead—work. Work as if your life were in peril; it really is.“No matter what ails you, work. Work faithfully, and work with faith. Work is the greatest material remedy available. Work will cure both mental and physical afflictions.”Now, young men, if you were to ask me for my help in seeking employment, what kind of recommendation could I give for you? Would I be able to say that you were completely honest and dependable and honorable in all your dealings? Or would I have to say that you measured up to some of these things, but that you were lazy, or had not done well in school, or that you would not follow instructions, or that you were a troublemaker, or disloyal, or any other thing that would not make you a desirable employee?If it is so important to be highly recommended or to have adequate references in order to get employment, how much more important it is that we live worthy of a good or satisfactory recommendation from our Church authorities so that we can progress in the various offices and functions of the priesthood, and eventually gain admission to the kingdom of heaven.As holders of the priesthood we should know that God is our Father; that his Son Jesus Christ is our Savior; that through his atoning sacrifice we can be resurrected, and by following his teachings gain eternal life; that through revelation The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established; that Spencer W. Kimball is a prophet of God and President of the church of Jesus Christ; and that the priesthood which we hold is the power of God delegated to us to act in his name.May we strive every day to live worthy in every way of this great privilege and blessing, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.