Sometime ago I read a very helpful book written by New York psychiatrist Smiley Blanton, under the title of  (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1960). In his book Dr. Blanton explains how for forty years he had used great ideas to heal people of their emotional difficulties and psychiatric problems. These ideas were not all in poetic form. He also used the great scriptures, the great prose, and the great hymns.I suppose this healing power of the psychiatrist might be related to the practice of a medical doctor who writes prescriptions for people to be filled not at drugstores but at bookstores, for he has discovered that there is frequently more healing power in books than in bottles. A mother heals the bumps and bruises of her children by her caresses and her loving expressions of sympathy.As I meditated upon these healing procedures, I tried to understand some of the things that Jesus may have had in mind when he said, “Physician, heal thyself.”  And I think he was giving us the detail of one method for handling this healing power when he instructed Emma Smith to make a selection of the inspiring hymns to be regularly run through our minds and hearts.I recently went to the library and obtained a copy of this little book, which I hold in my hand, which is a compilation of the ninety hymns selected by Emma Smith for our benefit. ( Kirtland, Ohio: F. G. Williams and Co., 1835. Available on microfilm in the Church Historical Department, Salt Lake City.) And because each of us has a different set of needs and a different set of interests, it seems to me that each one of us ought to make his own selection of hymns and then see to it that each one is thoroughly memorized and enthusiastically appreciated so that we may get the maximum from their healing message as well as their growing and saving power.William James, the great Harvard psychologist, once asked this question, how would you like to create your own mind? But isn’t that about what usually happens? Professor James explains that the mind is made up by what it feeds upon. He said that the mind, like the dyer’s hand, is colored by what it holds. If I hold in my hand a sponge full of purple dye, my hand becomes purple. And if I hold in my mind and heart great ideas of faith and enthusiasm, my whole personality is changed accordingly.If we think negative thoughts, we develop negative minds. If we think depraved thoughts, we develop depraved minds. On the other hand, if we think celestial thoughts, which are the kind of thoughts that God thinks, then we develop celestial minds and fulfill the meditation of Edward Dyer when he wrote:We develop our own godliness at the funerals of our loved ones when we listen to inspiring music, hear sacred prayers, comfort the bereaved, and stimulate ourselves with the greatest ideas. Recently a bereaved couple came into my office to tell me about their little three-year-old daughter who, without warning, died suddenly before their eyes. Of course the parents were heartbroken. They had shed many tears but their pain had not gone away, and they wanted to release their tensions by talking with someone. We all understand that we can heal others by listening sympathetically to an expression of their grief. It helped me to help them by remembering that as a very young man I sat at the bedside of my little seven-year-old sister, whom I loved very much, while she died of diphtheria.The mother of this other little girl felt that there could be nothing quite so terrible as for her beautiful little daughter to die almost before she had begun to live. And I could understand her pain. But finally I said to her, “Sister Jones, if you think it would help, I think I can tell you something that would be worse than your present trouble.” She said, “If you know of anything worse, I would like to hear about it.” So I recited for her James Whitcomb Riley’s poem entitled “Bereaved.” This was not the bereavement of one whose child had died, it was the bereavement of one who had no children. This sorrowful person said to her bereaved friend:I am very grateful to Mr. Riley for these stimulating thoughts. And he inspired me to compile my own book of ideas to heal those who are bereaved.There is also a poetry of courage. For many years Grantland Rice, the famous sportswriter, traveled around the country attending the great athletic contests, trying to isolate those traits that made athletes into champions. And then to make these traits negotiable in other lives, he wrote some seven hundred poems about the qualities that made people great. One of these he entitled “Courage.” He said:But, said he:It has been said that the poets stand next to the prophets in their ability to lift us up. I have never heard of Eliza R. Snow being sustained as a prophet, and yet she wrote “O My Father.” Sometimes we merely read these great lyrics out of the hymnbook instead of memorizing them and loving them and frequently saying them over to ourselves. Just think what would happen in the world if each person made his own selection of those ninety great poems of faith that most thrill him. I am sure that this afternoon you would not like to hear me try to sing “O My Father,” but I hope you will not object if I recite to you those great words of faith and worship, wherein Sister Snow said:In the second verse, she said:Verse three:Verse four:It might be difficult to find very many passages, even among the prophets, with more healing power than this.Just think what would happen in our lives if each of us memorized a goodly number of the poems of love. The Library of Congress has one section entitled The Poems of Faith and Freedom. The Lord said, “For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.” As I walk to work each morning, I have almost an hour wherein I can think the ideas that most stimulate me. And I have some other prayers to which I enjoy giving expression. In one of these, I pray:Then I have collected another set of the poetry of success, the poetry of enthusiasm, the poetry of industry, and the poetry of progress. Someone has said:As we get older, we may have new difficulties arise, and I like to encourage myself by paraphrasing some ideas under the title “Carry On.”And I would like to extend to each of you my own blessing and appreciation in the words adapted from an old Irish poem used by some of the people of that land as they attempted to heal and enrich those they loved by praying:And that it may always be so I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.Several months ago while traveling by air in the Andes area, I had the opportunity to explain to the man sitting next to me why I was living in South America.After coming to understand something about the Church, its doctrine, and my role as a General Authority, he finally said, “How can you give your entire life to  like this Mr. Kimball, and stay in this country as long as he tells you to stay here? I could never do that.” I responded, “I could not either, if he were ” and then bore testimony of the true role of the prophet on the earth, and that “for the Lord, through him, I would do anything.”A few years ago I took a person who was not yet a member of the Church to a meeting to hear one of the General Authorities speak. I had told him previously that this was one of the Lord’s anointed. After the meeting the man responded, “Well, he is nothing but ” I suppose that he expected to see an angel, a demonstration of the gift of tongues, or something like that as a physical evidence of the General Authority’s divine call.I have often wondered how many of us might have been deceived had we been in the very presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, in the meridian of time. The great majority saw Jesus as nothing more than  The  with spiritual discernment knew who he really was. If one is to make judgments with only his natural senses, he will never perceive the truth of the spiritual world. Have you listened, my brothers and sisters, really listened, to the inspired counsel of these good brethren who have spoken to you during this conference? Are you willing to obey and follow their counsel and the counsel of your local leaders as well?Where do you stand on this important matter of spiritually seeing your leaders the way the Lord sees them? Our response to that question ought to be like the faithful Israelites’ response to Joshua:“And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us, we will go.“According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee.” Sometime ago another man asked, “Do the General Authorities really know what is going on in the outlying areas? I am sure that they do not know of these detailed problems with which we are faced.” Another good sister said, “If the bishop knew what I know about the difficulties in the Relief Society, I know he would act differently. It’s too bad he doesn’t consult more with us and obtain all of our opinions about how to run the ward.” Another said, “I don’t go to my branch president for direction because he sees things differently than I do. Our personalities are too different. We just don’t seem to be on the same wavelength.”May I suggest, my brothers and sisters, that the General Authorities, your stake president, bishop, and priesthood quorum leaders do know what is going on  and that the rest will be resolved in their due time. This is the Lord’s church. It is directed by him through a definite priesthood power line of revelation. We believe in a God of miracles, and he does not cease to work spiritual miracles through his priesthood leaders.We recognize that in any presidency or bishopric the president or bishop may obtain counsel from his counselors, and perhaps from some others, before he, by inspiration, makes the decision. However, we do not in the Church subscribe to a participative-management type of direction, wherein the opinions of all are gathered in, weighed and measured, a consensus drawn, and then a decision made according to the majority. There may be some few exceptions to that statement, but generally speaking that type of approach is representative of the way the world manages its affairs. Many other churches are in the same category because they have nothing better. All the world can do is to dispute an issue, share an opinion, exchange an experience, and then try to draw the best conclusion from the given amount of facts available on the subject.In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the leaders at all levels of administration rely on revelation from God to direct their particular stewardships. There are many people, too many, who seek out the wrong individuals for counsel, too many who would rather  counsel than  it. Remember that others might share with you their experience, or broaden your understanding on a given issue, but if you are desirous of receiving revelation pertaining to your particular stewardship, it must come from the Lord. It may come directly through an interchange with him on your part or as revelation to you through your immediate priesthood leader.One of the great blessings of this church is that everyone has a spiritual leader to whom he should direct himself. In the case of a father, his children and wife will want to consult him as the spiritual leader in their home. If the matter needs further attention, the wife and children do not go to a priesthood quorum leader, as the husband might on some priesthood matters. They counsel with the bishop or branch president. If there is a problem in the marriage, the husband and wife go to their bishop for he presides over  of them as the bishop and presiding high priest over the ward. They need not go elsewhere, unless otherwise directed by the bishop, for additional guidance.After enumerating various spiritual gifts, the Lord provides this counsel concerning  bishop or any other presiding priesthood leader: “And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God.”  It is abundantly clear that presiding priesthood leaders are given the gift of discernment.Remember that at times your local priesthood leader may truly see things differently than you do. Disagreements seem to come over details and methods for performing given tasks, but almost never are based in differences over gospel principles. Your leader has a right to function with his own unique personality and in his own realm of experience, and it may be in  somewhat different in practice from the  you would perform.  counsel from a priesthood leader in the proper spirit is We live in trying times. When we receive counsel from our leaders that is difficult to comprehend, may we say in our hearts, “Father, I believe what I have been told. And when it is the right time, and I have paid the proper price to know, let me understand ”It is a gift from the Spirit to believe on the words of your priesthood leaders. I seem to hear them say: “ because the view from up here is much clearer than where  now are.  because I can clearly see beyond the next hill.” If one will listen to wise parents and priesthood leaders, he will perceive that they counsel with long lenses of eternity and not with cheap, nearsighted spectacles. He can then learn vicariously, through the spiritual vision of others, without having to participate in every type of activity to learn for himself good from evil.Remember, last of all, we do not desire blind obedience in the Church. We desire that every individual may know for himself that the counsel he receives from his leaders comes from the Lord. He has the right and the great privilege to know for himself of the Lord that he has been counseled aright. If he will be patient and wait upon the Lord, he will find that his priesthood leaders truly do counsel in righteousness, thus enabling him to walk upon safe ground.I pray that each of us might be more humble and desirous of receiving and obeying counsel. May each of us seek not to counsel the Lord, but seek counsel from his hand and from his inspired priesthood leaders,  In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.