My beloved brothers and sisters, my heart is filled as I stand before you today and accept this call to serve the Lord. I’m overwhelmed with the responsibility but grateful beyond words of expression for this opportunity to serve my fellowman.Since last Thursday afternoon when I had the great honor of visiting with President Kimball, things have not been the same. More than ever before I feel my total dependence on the Lord and pray earnestly for his Spirit to attend me and for your sustaining influence and love.There are many things for which I am grateful today, and I acknowledge the love, respect, and devotion that I have for a mother and father who taught me as Alma instructed his son Helaman: “Never be weary of good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart, … [to] learn wisdom in [my] youth, … to keep the commandments of God”  I will be eternally grateful for their love and its profound influence in my life.I’m grateful for relatives and friends who have been patient and understanding. Throughout my life I have been blessed with good friends who have enriched and strengthened me. To some six hundred plus missionaries that were assigned to us as we presided over the Arizona Tempe Mission: we can never forget the lessons learned in that great mission experience. To my good wife, Gwen, who is one of our Heavenly Father’s most noble handmaidens: she has sustained me with an unfailing devotion; she is full of love and faith and possesses a great love of the gospel. She has been an inspiration to me, and I love her with all of my heart. I appreciate and love each of our six children, a son-in-law, and our first grandchild. Their righteous lives have brought nothing but joy and happiness to us.May I extend a special love and greeting to my son who is in the Language Training Mission and who will leave Tuesday for Padova, Italy.I bear to you today, my brothers and sisters, my testimony—for which I am grateful—that the Lord Jesus Christ lives, that this is his work, that President Spencer Woolley Kimball is indeed the Lord’s prophet upon the earth, and I love him. I pledge to him, to my Brethren of the General Authorities, and to you, my brothers and sisters, that I will serve with all of my heart, might, mind, and strength. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.The gospel of Jesus Christ, as we know it, and as it has been restored to the earth, makes people happy. I was speaking to a prominent lawyer from New York a short time ago. He looked at me in my circumstances and said, “What more could you ever want in life?” I agreed with him, and I analyzed it: I looked into my past, into my present, and of course, realized once again the great blessings we enjoy as a family unit. I love my wife. The Lord gave her to me. I love the gospel. I know it’s true. I told President Kimball two days ago when I met him that for sometime now—for some two to four years—every time I look at his picture, every time I see him at a distance, every time I shake his hand, I know who he is. He is the representative of the Lord on this earth. I know this is true.Because the gospel of Jesus Christ makes us happy, we do desire to share this message with all people. I pledge my life and means and full service to the Lord, to the presidency of the Church, and to any persons who preside over me. I desire to serve. I have said on many occasions recently that one of the things I would dislike the most is not to be involved. It didn’t matter what I was doing, just so I was doing something in the Church.The Savior’s example of service was great to us. We should follow and emulate the same.I pray for a special blessing to be with each of us, that we may catch the vision that President Kimball has as to the great need and urgency that is in the world to expedite the work. I pray that we may be able to do so, of course, with only one thing in mind, and that is to further and strengthen the work.My wife and I had a very unique experience this last week or two. Something we had planned on doing for nearly twenty years was coming to fruition at the end of this year. We independently looked at each other and said, “I don’t know why, but I don’t think we should do it.” And of course, Thursday we found out why.I’m grateful for the intervention of the Lord in my life. I pray that I will be worthy of the great many blessings he gives to me, that I might be a great service to the upbuilding of his kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.