The Lord has told us that “men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness;“For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward.” This quotation refers to nonmembers as well as Church members; all men and women have the power to do good. It is of the utmost importance that they have the desire and determination to live righteously. We should not be employed at any time in service that is not a good cause. When members of the Church are engaged in doing something that is evil or contrary to a good cause, we are not living up to the obligations we took upon ourselves in the waters of baptism. Very many people in the world, not of our church, are engaged in a good cause and are trying to bring forth much righteousness. Those who are endeavoring to improve mankind, who teach faith in God and the living of a goodly life, are engaged in a good cause and shall not lose their reward therefore.If we would have the blessings that the Lord would like to bestow upon us, we must have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; we must have a knowledge of the true and living God; we must repent of our past sins, overcome any incorrect understanding; we must humble ourselves before God, and make covenants with him, and be obedient to those covenants.President George Albert Smith, one of our former presidents and a man without guile, used to say in substance: We do not ask our nonmember friends to forsake anything that is true that they have in their churches or in their lives, but we would like them to add to the good they already have the eternal truths of the gospel. If they will do so, they will have a joy and happiness beyond anything they have heretofore had. (See  comp. Preston Nibley, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948, pp. 12–13.)The gospel of Christ includes all truth, visible or invisible to the naked eye. It is possible for all men to repent of their sins unless they commit the unpardonable sin. They may receive the blessings of a righteous life if they will only determine to keep the Lord’s commandments, if they will humble themselves and seek his help and guidance.I like to think that people generally want to do good; they feel happier when they are doing good. Sin never was happiness. It builds up an iron curtain between man and God. The Lord gave us the right pattern when he said, “Do unto others as you would that men should do unto you.” (See   The Lord has given us no commandment that is not for our good and benefit and that does not bring satisfaction and happiness if we follow it. We need the help of the Lord, and he will give us that help if we seek it and follow the course that he has provided.Our young missionaries who go into the world to preach the gospel return home happy because they have been in the service of the Lord, trying to bless mankind. The Lord has been with them. His Spirit has guided them. They are clean-lived; they are not like the carnal world.We take the sacrament in remembrance of the suffering of our Lord and covenant to keep his commandments that we may always have his Spirit to be with us. His Spirit will not lead us to do anything that is evil but will encourage us to do good, and by following that persuasion and by maintaining that guidance, we will grow in nearness to the Lord; we will grow in good deeds; and we will overcome the flesh. A man who has the companionship of the Spirit of the Lord is a happy man. He can be a thoughtful and faithful patriarch and leader in his home and family; he is a good neighbor; he can be an influence for good among his neighbors.The hymns that we sing have an influence for good upon our lives. The music of the Tabernacle Choir has a faith-promoting and cultural influence upon the listeners. The spirit with which the Choir sings the words and melodies of our own hymns and of compositions by other inspired people creates a desire upon those who listen or participate to serve the Lord. The inspired hymns that we sing in our congregations are prayers and songs of rejoicing unto our Lord.Men are crying, “peace, peace,” but there is no peace. We are living in times that are trying the hearts of men. We need not be afraid if we are on the Lord’s side. It is not wise for us to put off the day of preparation and to think the Lord will delay his coming. It is true we do not know the day nor the hour, the month nor the year, but we do recognize the signs that he has given us as an indication of the nearness of that great event.How can we be prepared for that day? We must keep the commandments of the Lord; we must be engaged in a good cause, endeavoring to bring forth much righteousness. We must warn our fellowmen. We must teach our children true doctrines and lead them in the paths of rectitude.The Lord has said to this people: “After your testimony cometh wrath and indignation upon the people.” It is innate in human nature that when we have something interesting in life, something precious, something vital, we desire to share it with those whom we love. We have the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is the most precious thing, the most important thing in all the world. We love the gospel of our Lord, we love our Father’s children, and we want to share the gospel with them because it will bring joy and happiness to their souls. If accepted and lived, it will bring salvation and exaltation in his kingdom.Our church, Christ’s church, is a sharing church. We have the responsibility of doing all in our power to save the souls of men, to bring them to a knowledge of God, and to assist the Lord in accomplishing his great purpose. The application of the teachings of the Master, as set forth in his gospel, is the only thing in the world that can save the world. Man needs the spiritual phases of life more than he does the material or physical if he is to be happy. The principles of the gospel are given for the definite purpose of bringing happiness and joy to man in this life and an eternity of joy in the hereafter.Why are we so greatly interested in influencing our fellowmen to serve God and keep his commandments? They are God’s children; they are our brothers and sisters.The late Dr. James E. Talmage, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, has given us this inspirational thought:“What is man in this boundless setting of sublime splendor? I answer you: Potentially now, actually to be, he is greater and grander, more precious according to the arithmetic of God, than all the planets and suns of space. For him were they created; they are the handiwork of God; man is His son! In this world man is given dominion over a few things; it is his privilege to achieve supremacy over many things.“… Incomprehensibly grand as are the physical creations of the earth and space, they have been brought into existence as means to an end, necessary to the realization of the supreme purpose, which in the words of the Creator is thus declared:“‘For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.’  (“The Earth to Be Redeemed,”  Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1931, pp. 357–58.)Think of the great tragedy, the terrible responsibility, that men take upon themselves when they treat so lightly, as is sometimes the case, the destruction of human life. The penalty is an eternal one.Charles Kingsley has said: “Nothing that man ever invents will absolve him from the universal necessity of being good as God is good; righteous as God is righteous; and holy as God is holy.”Our Savior, without any effort on our part, through his great atoning sacrifice and in his great love and compassion for us, made it possible for all mankind to come forth from the grave, thus opening the door to immortality for all mankind. Had he not given his life for our salvation, death would most certainly have a terrible sting, and the grave would win an awful victory. Man would be robbed of the blessing and attainment of immortality and eternal life.But what about eternal life? One might take the view that immortality and eternal life are synonymous. It is true that immortality is part of eternal life, but if we are to have eternal life in the true sense, we must render obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of life and salvation which he has revealed. Only thereby can we obtain the reward of exaltation and eternal life in the presence of our Heavenly Father in his celestial kingdom.The reward for doing good is joy and happiness in this life and eternal life in the great hereafter. To do good is to keep the commandments the Lord has given us. The gospel is the true way of life, the teachings of our Lord and Savior, the light of the world. That which is contrary thereto is darkness and regret.I bear testimony that this is the Lord’s work, that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to earth with its keys, powers, and authorities, that it is the Lord’s work and glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Sometime ago I read a very helpful book written by New York psychiatrist Smiley Blanton, under the title of  (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1960). In his book Dr. Blanton explains how for forty years he had used great ideas to heal people of their emotional difficulties and psychiatric problems. These ideas were not all in poetic form. He also used the great scriptures, the great prose, and the great hymns.I suppose this healing power of the psychiatrist might be related to the practice of a medical doctor who writes prescriptions for people to be filled not at drugstores but at bookstores, for he has discovered that there is frequently more healing power in books than in bottles. A mother heals the bumps and bruises of her children by her caresses and her loving expressions of sympathy.As I meditated upon these healing procedures, I tried to understand some of the things that Jesus may have had in mind when he said, “Physician, heal thyself.”  And I think he was giving us the detail of one method for handling this healing power when he instructed Emma Smith to make a selection of the inspiring hymns to be regularly run through our minds and hearts.I recently went to the library and obtained a copy of this little book, which I hold in my hand, which is a compilation of the ninety hymns selected by Emma Smith for our benefit. ( Kirtland, Ohio: F. G. Williams and Co., 1835. Available on microfilm in the Church Historical Department, Salt Lake City.) And because each of us has a different set of needs and a different set of interests, it seems to me that each one of us ought to make his own selection of hymns and then see to it that each one is thoroughly memorized and enthusiastically appreciated so that we may get the maximum from their healing message as well as their growing and saving power.William James, the great Harvard psychologist, once asked this question, how would you like to create your own mind? But isn’t that about what usually happens? Professor James explains that the mind is made up by what it feeds upon. He said that the mind, like the dyer’s hand, is colored by what it holds. If I hold in my hand a sponge full of purple dye, my hand becomes purple. And if I hold in my mind and heart great ideas of faith and enthusiasm, my whole personality is changed accordingly.If we think negative thoughts, we develop negative minds. If we think depraved thoughts, we develop depraved minds. On the other hand, if we think celestial thoughts, which are the kind of thoughts that God thinks, then we develop celestial minds and fulfill the meditation of Edward Dyer when he wrote:We develop our own godliness at the funerals of our loved ones when we listen to inspiring music, hear sacred prayers, comfort the bereaved, and stimulate ourselves with the greatest ideas. Recently a bereaved couple came into my office to tell me about their little three-year-old daughter who, without warning, died suddenly before their eyes. Of course the parents were heartbroken. They had shed many tears but their pain had not gone away, and they wanted to release their tensions by talking with someone. We all understand that we can heal others by listening sympathetically to an expression of their grief. It helped me to help them by remembering that as a very young man I sat at the bedside of my little seven-year-old sister, whom I loved very much, while she died of diphtheria.The mother of this other little girl felt that there could be nothing quite so terrible as for her beautiful little daughter to die almost before she had begun to live. And I could understand her pain. But finally I said to her, “Sister Jones, if you think it would help, I think I can tell you something that would be worse than your present trouble.” She said, “If you know of anything worse, I would like to hear about it.” So I recited for her James Whitcomb Riley’s poem entitled “Bereaved.” This was not the bereavement of one whose child had died, it was the bereavement of one who had no children. This sorrowful person said to her bereaved friend:I am very grateful to Mr. Riley for these stimulating thoughts. And he inspired me to compile my own book of ideas to heal those who are bereaved.There is also a poetry of courage. For many years Grantland Rice, the famous sportswriter, traveled around the country attending the great athletic contests, trying to isolate those traits that made athletes into champions. And then to make these traits negotiable in other lives, he wrote some seven hundred poems about the qualities that made people great. One of these he entitled “Courage.” He said:But, said he:It has been said that the poets stand next to the prophets in their ability to lift us up. I have never heard of Eliza R. Snow being sustained as a prophet, and yet she wrote “O My Father.” Sometimes we merely read these great lyrics out of the hymnbook instead of memorizing them and loving them and frequently saying them over to ourselves. Just think what would happen in the world if each person made his own selection of those ninety great poems of faith that most thrill him. I am sure that this afternoon you would not like to hear me try to sing “O My Father,” but I hope you will not object if I recite to you those great words of faith and worship, wherein Sister Snow said:In the second verse, she said:Verse three:Verse four:It might be difficult to find very many passages, even among the prophets, with more healing power than this.Just think what would happen in our lives if each of us memorized a goodly number of the poems of love. The Library of Congress has one section entitled The Poems of Faith and Freedom. The Lord said, “For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads.” As I walk to work each morning, I have almost an hour wherein I can think the ideas that most stimulate me. And I have some other prayers to which I enjoy giving expression. In one of these, I pray:Then I have collected another set of the poetry of success, the poetry of enthusiasm, the poetry of industry, and the poetry of progress. Someone has said:As we get older, we may have new difficulties arise, and I like to encourage myself by paraphrasing some ideas under the title “Carry On.”And I would like to extend to each of you my own blessing and appreciation in the words adapted from an old Irish poem used by some of the people of that land as they attempted to heal and enrich those they loved by praying:And that it may always be so I sincerely pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.