My remarks today are directed primarily to young married couples and to those who are planning to be married, but perhaps they will apply to all of us who are married or who someday will be married. I would like to talk about the art of making your marriage successful.Our Heavenly Father loves all of us and wants us to be happy. The scriptures record, “Men are, that they might have joy.”  President Kimball has told us that the price of happiness is to keep the commandments. (See  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 126.) Nowhere else are happiness and success more important than in your marriage. is a marriage solemnized in the temple. To you who were married for time only, let me urge you to thoroughly investigate the blessings available to you by going to the temple and having your family sealed to you for time and all eternity. Participating in these sacred ordinances should be your most important objective for achieving a successful marriage. He gave us our free agency, allowing us to make our own decisions. He also furnished us with guidelines to help us live righteously.In His wisdom He gives us many problems, for He knows that by meeting them and finding solutions we will gain knowledge and skills, develop character, and learn to overcome evil, all of which will help us while we are here on earth, as well as in the life hereafter.We should, therefore, look at problems in marriage as opportunities for growth and development. As we meet the challenges successfully, we will enjoy peace, love, and tranquility in our marriage and in our home. is establish and maintain good relations with each other. If you want to be sweethearts, you must work at it. I admonish every one of you to do everything possible to make your companion happy. Be kind and considerate of each other. When problems arise, talk things over calmly and resolve differences promptly. On one occasion Elder Gordon B. Hinckley said that quiet speech in the home is the language of peace. (See  Apr. 1971, p. 82.) President McKay used to say that we should never yell at each other in the home. And then, facetiously, he would add that maybe on one occasion it would be all right and that would be if the house were on fire. (See  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1971, p. 294.)Sometimes it is difficult for us to understand why our mates don’t see things the same and arrive at the same conclusions as we do. People are different in their thinking and their understanding, and opinions often vary. Differences must be reconciled promptly if husbands and wives are to be happy and work as a team together. it is important to reach an understanding on what is expected of each of the marriage partners. Ordinarily the husband is the breadwinner, and he should be willing to work hard and to do all in his power to properly take care of the financial needs of his family. Such needs should be discussed and priorities set for the welfare of the entire family.The wife is the homemaker. It is her responsibility to see that a clean, orderly home is maintained. Some divorces have occurred where the wife becomes indifferent about her personal appearance, or becomes a careless housekeeper, or both. I cannot stress too strongly to the sisters the importance of personal cleanliness, good appearance, and maintaining a clean, orderly home.In the beginning, if the wife’s health permits, she is often temporarily employed outside the home. When this is the case, the husband should help with the housekeeping chores. If a man truly loves his wife, he will not want or allow her to work more than her health and strength permit. He will want to help her in every possible way.When I was a young man, my wife would ask me to come and help her with the dishes, with making the beds, or with other household chores. Now, at this time in our lives, I ask her to come and help me wash the dishes, make the beds, and perform other household chores. The important thing is to work together and help each other. Demonstrate consideration at all times. Brethren, open the door of the car for your wife or companion. When you enter or leave a building together, open the door and have her go in first. Help her to be seated before you are seated.Sometimes our ladies don’t allow us time to perform such courtesies. My advice to you sisters is to take the extra time. If you jump out of the car a few times without his help, he will probably expect you to come and open the door for him. Sisters would do well to remember that a husband generally treats his wife the way she expects to be treated.Money management is very important. I’d like to give you four guides that I think would be helpful in this respect.1.  Keep yourself eligible for the great blessings the Lord has promised to those who obey this commandment. He made this statement in the scriptures:“Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.”  I testify to you that this is true.2.  Save something out of every dollar you earn. I suggest your goal be no less than ten percent of your income after you have paid the Lord His share.Brigham Young once said: “If you wish to get rich, save what you get. A fool can earn money; but it takes a wise man to save and dispose of it to his own advantage.” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941, p. 292.)3.  for installment purchases. We are all being urged to “buy now pay later.” This makes it sound easy and even glamorous to surround ourselves with luxuries before they are earned. My advice to all is to  now and  later. This will not only save a high interest charge, but it will also keep couples out of financial bondage.Our late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., advised us: “Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little.” ( Apr. 1937, p. 26.)4.  To consistently spend more than you earn makes it impossible to keep solvent and difficult to control your “wants.” In establishing priorities, remember that the family always comes first and foremost in your life. Next comes Church responsibilities and then your business affairs—the way you earn your living.Remember the admonition of the Savior when He told his disciples, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” I testify that this is true and that it points the way to success in all respects. Use it wisely. Remind yourselves often that things that matter most should not be left to the mercy of things that matter the least. To live righteous lives and accomplish the purposes of our creation, we must constantly review the past, determine our present status, and set goals for the future. Without this process there is little chance of reaching one’s objectives. Those with whom you associate will contribute to your success or your failure, and their actions and ideals will have a profound influence on life and your actions, either for good or evil. Learn to walk in the company of good people; shun evil by staying out of the devil’s territory. Be honest with your spouse, with your family, with yourself, and with your neighbor. Honesty includes freedom from lying, deceiving, cheating, or stealing, as well as meeting our commitments.Honesty also includes doing a good day’s work. If we shirk our jobs, we are stealing time from our employers.The business world and other employers are seeking those who are honest and dependable. This has always been the case and will continue to be so for all time.Guard your reputation for honesty and dependability very carefully. It can be one of your most valuable possessions. Our scriptures make this very clear. In Doctrine and Covenants 68:25  we read, “Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of … hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.”Notice it didn’t say the Sunday School teacher or the Primary teacher. The sin is on the heads of the Home responsibilities and rearing children must be uppermost in the minds and actions of parents if a successful marriage is to be achieved. This famous statement made by our late President David O. McKay should always be remembered: “No other success can compensate for failure in the home.” ( Apr. 1964, p. 5.) and in all walks of life, not only to each other, but also to your children, your relatives, your friends, and your associates.The Lord commanded us to love one another when he said, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”  Quarreling, bickering, and faultfinding should be avoided at all costs. In 3 Nephi 11:29–30  the Lord made this significant statement:“He that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”And also in  we read that parents are particularly responsible for the behavior of their children:“And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness.” both night and morning. Take turns thanking your Heavenly Father for the blessings He has given you and ask for those things you need that will be for your good. Our Heavenly Father always answers our prayers. Sometimes His answers are not what we expect or ask for, but I promise you His answers are always for our good. He knows better than we how our prayers should be answered. In the scriptures we find answers to all of life’s problems. Attend your meetings. Magnify your callings in the priesthood. Wives, support your husbands in their Church assignments; and husbands, support your wives in their Church callings. Go to the temple often and carry the spirit you feel there back into your homes. Be diligent in keeping the covenants you have made or will make in the house of the Lord.At a fireside talk at Brigham Young University, President Kimball said, “Almost all marriages could be beautiful, harmonious, and happy, and eternal ones, if the two people primarily involved would determine that it should be, that it must be, that it will be.” (“Marriage is Honorable,” in  Provo: Brigham Young University Press, 1974, p. 257.)May our Heavenly Father bless you abundantly in your efforts to make your marriage successful for both time and all eternity, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.It has been but seven days since throngs of people attended those special worship services, hearing songs and sermons, commemorating that most important event—the crucifixion and resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.In reviewing and pondering that miracle, my thoughts have been drawn to the episode after the Jews had bound Jesus and led Him to the judgment hall.It is recorded in the scripture:“Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall … and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou the King of the Jews?“Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?“Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?“Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.“Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.“Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.” Further negotiations, however, between Pilate and the accusers of Jesus brought about the crucifixion.With the question “What is truth?” Pilate left Jesus standing alone, without granting Him the courtesy of reply. One wonders why. Such action leads one to believe that Pilate feared the truth, perhaps as others might fear it—not being willing to face up to it, not wishing to take upon themselves the discipline and responsibility demanded by truth.Jesus said, “Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.” Those who are “of the truth” are those who sincerely seek after it. All of mankind should be seekers after truth for it is the supreme essence of their lives.One author expresses such a thought with these words: “Yet truth, which only doth judge itself, teacheth that the inquiry of truth, which is the love-making or wooing of it, the knowledge of truth, which is the presence of it, and the belief of truth, which is the enjoying of it, is the sovereign good of human nature.” (Francis Bacon, “Essay of Truth,”  New York: P. F. Collier and Son, Co., 1909, p. 8.)In harmony with that thought an ancient poet wrote: “‘It is a pleasure to stand upon the shore and to see ships tossed upon the sea; a pleasure to stand in the window of a castle and to see a battle and the adventures thereof below: but no pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage ground of truth’ (a hill not to be commanded, and where the air is always clear and serene), ‘and to see the errors and wanderings and mists and tempests in the vale below’; so always that this prospect be with pity, and not with swelling or pride. Certainly, it is heaven upon earth, to have a man’s mind move in charity, rest in providence, and turn upon the poles of truth.” (Bacon, quoting Lucretius, in “Essay of Truth,” p. 8.)It is fitting that we remember the words of Jesus: “And for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth.” Truth is knowledge! “This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”  Truth defined is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ.During the Savior’s ministry on earth, He organized His church, choosing humble but sincere men to be His apostles; He lived with them; He made journeys with them; He taught them; He performed miracles before them; He ordained them, granting authority and power—all preparatory to sending them into the world to declare His gospel.On a certain occasion as He journeyed with them, “Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, [and] he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God.“And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.“And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.” The rock of revelation is the foundation of His church. The principle of revelation is indispensable in the living church. This principle is inherent in the affairs of God as He directs His children through His prophets. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was restored under the power and authority of divine revelation.Early in the nineteenth century a sincere young man whose name was Joseph Smith, a seeker after truth, found in the Epistle of James (which was written to the “twelve tribes which are scattered abroad”  these powerful words: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.“But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.“For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.” With that heavenly invitation to truth, Joseph Smith ventured into the sphere of prayer and received the knowledge of the Father and the Son, two personalities, and instructions from the voice of the Savior. In response to his inquiry Joseph was told that none of the churches existent were true, that “they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.” Further instruction came to him at that time that he would be God’s instrument in restoring His true church upon the earth.“Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.” Sometime later in 1841, eleven years after the organization of the restored church, Joseph Smith was requested to set forth a brief statement of the belief of its members. This statement is known as the Articles of Faith. The eighth and ninth articles of that statement express our belief with respect to revelation from the divine source. It says:“We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. “We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.” We know that the Bible is a compilation of the available revealed messages received by the prophets from God for the benefit and guidance of God’s children here on earth. The Bible is the foundation of our religious library. It has been brought to us in an honorable manner and is sorely needed in this modern world. It contains much of what we need to know. How would we have known of Jesus had the record been lost? Think of the revealing words of John:“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.“The same was in the beginning with God.“All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.“In him was life; and the life was the light of men.“He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.” Jesus was the Creator of this world and all things pertaining to it. He was Jehovah who revealed His will to the prophets, thus ushering in all of the gospel dispensations that have occurred.The Bible, however, does not contain  the revelation that has ever been given.Through modern revelation the Book of Mormon was brought forth through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It stands as a new witness of Jesus Christ and discloses that His gospel was known to the ancient inhabitants of the Americas and that He visited the Americas after His ascension. These inhabitants were known to Him as “other sheep of my fold” (see   for they carried in their veins the blood of Israel.Through modern revelation we now know that Adam received the gospel. It has been revealed that “Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord, and they heard the voice of the Lord … speaking unto them, and they saw him not; for they were shut out of his presence.“And he gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.“And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.“And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth.“Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore.“And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will.” We now know more concerning Enoch. The Bible gives but little information about this great prophet. Latter-day revelation tells of his work among his people. Says Enoch, “The Lord which spake with me, the same is the God of heaven, and he is my God, and your God.”  He explained to Enoch the whole plan of salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ as it had been declared to father Adam.We now know more of Noah, that the “Lord ordained Noah after his own order, and commanded him that he should go forth and declare his Gospel unto the children of men, even as it was given unto Enoch.“Noah continued his preaching, … saying: Hearken, and give heed unto my words;“Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you; nevertheless they hearkened not.” Now we know more of Abraham, as Jehovah spoke to him and said: “My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee.“And I will make of thee a great nation, … and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations.” He declared to Abraham the vision of the preexistence of mankind: “Now the Lord had shown unto me … the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;“And God saw these souls that they were good … and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.” Were we to continue to review all of the modern revelations, we would come to realize that this is now the time of which Paul revealed to the Ephesians “that in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth.” The gospel reveals to us the need for Jesus to offer Himself as a sacrifice for the sins of men that all mankind may be redeemed, that man may be saved by believing in Him, by believing in all of His teachings, and by being obedient to them, and by being true hearers of the voice of Jesus. It is a lifelong task to hear, to learn, to obey all the vast truths, for the gospel reaches into the eternities.It has been said of our belief in divine revelation that “this declaration of religious belief in the Divine fountain of Truth, and His revelation thereof to man, embraces all truth in the universe: whether revealed or yet to be revealed; whether made known through the inspiration of the Almighty that ‘giveth understanding’ to the spirit of man in his discoveries and developments in the material things of life; or whether manifest in things visible or in things invisible to mortal eyes. It embraces every scientific truth, every historic truth, every truth in philosophy, or logic, or demonstrable fact. That is the scope of revealed religion. It is the system of law and order which prevails under heavenly control. It is the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.” (James H. Anderson,  2nd ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938, p. 132.)We invite all to consider the truths spoken from this pulpit, with the suggestion of an ancient poet who said, “Fly no opinion because it is new, but strictly search, reject it if false, embrace it if ’tis true.”May that be done in the attitude of prayer.I bear witness to the truth, that revelation and prayer are indispensable in attaining eternal life, and this I do in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.