My brothers and sisters, I am deeply grateful for the love and confidence of the First Presidency, and for the sustaining vote of this conference that has brought me here before you at this time. I love the Lord and I love his work.At the risk of being unduly personal, I would like to tell you how I feel about the gospel. I love it, not compelled by lack of choice or circumstance nor by the uncritical adoption of patterns commanded from afar; not manipulated, but acting consciously, constructively, purposely, giving a freewill offering of the heart. I want to be involved in the Lord’s work—humbly, totally, positively, and honestly; neither subordinating my soul to nor seeking dominion over others, but being freely one with those who are his, sharing and caring, thankful to be a part of the work wherever it may be, not to escape aloneness nor to fill life with self-deceptive activity, but rather knowingly and willingly doing what must be done; a grateful fellow servant, supporting, building, loving, lending heart and breath to a great cause.I want to stand firm and fearless, not weakening—for weakness implies pressure from without—but radiating strength and charity truly from within; offensively—not defensively—enthusiastically, sweetly, faithfully, everlasting in harmony with the Lord. May we all become one with him and his prophet and bring harmony into the work that we are in charge of, wherever that may be, in whatever land, I pray for each of us, and most especially for me, as I acknowledge my weaknesses and stand before you to accept this great calling. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.President Kimball and my beloved brothers and sisters, no one has ever come to this calling with a greater sense of inadequacy than I do at this time. In the sweet agony of the pondering, in the long hours of the days and the nights since last Thursday, I have had the feeling of being completely unworthy and unprepared.I understand that a chief requirement for the holy apostleship is to be a personal witness of Jesus as the Christ and the Divine Redeemer. Perhaps on that basis alone, I can qualify. This truth has been made known to me by the unspeakable peace and power of the Spirit of God.I acknowledge the soothing and sustaining love of my beloved Ruth, who is as much a part of me as my heart and soul. I wish to express my deep love and affection for each member of our family.I first learned the names of the ancient and modern apostles in Primary. My mother was one of my teachers. I am certain that never in her wildest dreams did she ever think that any of those whom she taught would one day sit in the council of the special witnesses of the Lord Jesus Christ.I was born with partial color-blindness. I have learned to love all of the people in the countries where I have been as a missionary, soldier, or General Authority, regardless of the color of their skins. I hope to be a disciple after the manner and example of President Kimball and the others in their love for all, and especially for the humble, the downtrodden, the poor, the afflicted, the needy, and the poor in spirit. I am mindful that if we forget these, we can in no way be his disciples.We mark with sadness the passing of our beloved friend and associate Elder Delbert L. Stapley. No one can ever take his place in our affection and in our hearts.I express appreciation for the support and love of President Kimball, President Tanner, President Romney, President Benson, and all of the Twelve. To President Franklin D. Richards and all of our Brethren of the First Quorum of the Seventy and other General Authorities, I express my continuing love and appreciation. I pledge to God and his prophet, President Kimball, my life and whatever energy and little ability I may have, fully and completely and without reservation, for I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. I know that the Savior knows that I know that he lives. So I willingly accept the call, the keys, and the charge, and promise to do the best I know how, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ. Amen.