“Sunrise, sunset—swiftly fly the years. …” (From  1964.)Those lines from the poignant song bring a memory of two friends who, like the father and mother portrayed in  did not “remember getting older.” The man was about sixty-three and the woman fifty-five. Both were healthy, happy, and employed in work they enjoyed.One day the man was told he must take an immediate retirement. On the Monday morning the retirement took effect, the husband watched his wife prepare to leave for work. He realized that he would be home alone with nothing to do. He had no occupation, no hobbies, no special interests, and no plans for the future.As he followed his wife to the door that morning, he exclaimed in anguish, “What’s going to happen to me? What can I do?”What, indeed, was there for this man to do, who one day was at the peak of his career and the next day was classified among the elderly unemployed? He was left to try to find a new life for himself or to vegetate and die. Sadly I add that within a brief time he did die.Now there are those who would say that this crisis in the lives of my friends was inevitable. This, of course, is true. Aging is a natural process.President N. Eldon Tanner has counseled: “People of all ages must realize that one day they could be old. … A time for which we should all prepare.” (“Preparing for Old Age,” Dec. 1976, p. 4.)Many different circumstances and factors affect the quality of a person’s life in the later years. But there is a corollary between preparing for old age and enjoying it when it comes. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.” May I suggest a few preparations?First, we can begin now to develop good attitudes toward the later years. We can learn to respect the wisdom, experience, and value of older people. We can strengthen our family ties and appreciate the assets of many generations in a family: the children, youth, adults—including the elderly.With careful planning, a family can have loving, rewarding experiences in caring for its elderly members. There is no better way to teach children respect for the elderly and the need for everyone to prepare for that time in life than by helping to care for their older relatives.Second, we can practice the principles of financial preparedness by living within our means and saving for the time when our earnings cease.Third, we can make service to others a lifetime habit; the older years may bring even more time for service as the hours once devoted to earning a livelihood or rearing a family can be used to enrich the lives of others through church and community service.We can also enrich our own lives by learning new skills after our full-time occupation has relaxed its demands. Learning should be a lifetime pursuit.Finally, good health practices pay important dividends in later years. Our physical health can be enhanced when we keep the Word of Wisdom, eat a well-balanced diet every day, practice good dental hygiene, control weight, get adequate sleep and rest, maintain a physical fitness program, and adhere to medical procedures which insure a healthy life.Some who reach retirement age seem to feel, “I’ve done my share. Now it’s someone else’s turn.” But withdrawal, according to gerontologists and others who work with the aging, can actually hasten the aging process.My Aunt Martha is soon to be ninety-five years of age. I’d challenge almost anyone to keep up with her. There seems to be no end to what she finds to do. She attends civic meetings. She studies her Church lesson assignments and makes appropriate contributions to classroom discussions. In a time of need, she is the first one to render compassionate service. I’ve heard many people say that the bowl of hot soup she brought was just what they needed. Was it the food or the loving concern which was special?Sisters in her visiting teaching district know she will be there early in the month. She attends two or three sessions each time she goes to the temple. She keeps current her genealogical records, helps with the housework and gardening.But I think her greatest joy is missionary work. She filled a mission in Southern California when she was seventy-five years of age, and since then I don’t suppose she has let a single opportunity to share the gospel pass her by. She loves and is loved. She is grateful for life and lives each moment fully.Priesthood and Relief Society leaders must be aware of the great potential of those like Aunt Martha who are in their later years and can give useful service. Besides the traditional assignments for the elderly, we suggest substitute-grandparenting; teaching in mini-classes such skills as knitting, crocheting, gardening, breadmaking, and quilting, or other skills which younger women often need to learn. They might read to the visually handicapped, compile family and ward histories, write letters for those who need such help, or teach those who wish to learn to read or write.A wonderful world of service may emerge for those with time and skills to offer!So far, I have been speaking about the independent elderly, but there are many aged people who are dependent. Some are partially bedridden; others are senile or physically incapacitated. These older people must not be neglected. Some may be adequately cared for in their own homes with the aid of such services as meals brought in to them each day, housekeeping, shopping, out-patient medical services, and a daily telephone check, while other older people need twenty-four-hour care and attention. Often, even though families give this loving care to the elderly, they and the elderly need supportive services from others.Relief Society and priesthood leaders should be particularly aware of the needs of these families and their elderly members.The dependent elderly need the kindness and the attention of loving friends and visiting and home teachers. A busy mother in a home may need a few hours’ respite from the constant care of an older person, just as a young mother does from the constant care of young children. Relief Society Assigned Compassionate Service could be a natural response to this need.There may be times when the medical and physical needs of the aged can only be met by institutional care. When this is necessary, Relief Society and priesthood leaders may assist family members by helping evaluate the appropriateness of the institution.And after a family member enters a health care institution, the family and the Church need to continue their supportive interest with regular visits and expressions of love. Visiting teachers, and, where appropriate, special nursing-home Relief Society sessions, can be a blessing to sisters in such institutions.Church members will be led to a greater understanding of their responsibilities regarding the aged if a stake uses the new BYU film production  as the focus of a discussion on the needs and contributions of its elderly members.When the time of old age comes upon us—and it surely will, for “swiftly fly the years,” as the song says—we need to come to that time with a courage born of faith and of preparation. Underlying all we do for ourselves and for our own, we must remember the aged with the compassionate spirit of Christ in whose work we are engaged.May the cry of the psalmist ring in our hearts:“Cast me not off in the time of old age;“Forsake me not when my strength faileth.” I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.A bishop’s ministry is blessed with joy-filled opportunity to “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.”  As the father of the ward, he is looked to for answers to a whole range of human problems:Each bishop knows that ministering to the temporal needs of stricken members awakens in him a spark of the divine nature. The Savior taught us that all things are spiritual unto him. Elder B. H. Roberts declared that the highest development of the spiritual is in its connection with the physical. (See B. H. Roberts,  Salt Lake City: The Deseret News, 1903.) In our temporal world, the problems of the flesh are real and constant and demanding. The Church has been commissioned of the Lord to provide the means by which its members may solve these problems. President McKay was once challenged by a man who said,  Brothers and sisters, we  have the answers!It has always been the disposition of the true disciples of Christ, as they reached higher degrees of spirituality, to look after the needy. During Alma’s day,“They did impart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; …“And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished.” In this dispensation, the Lord has declared, “I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed. … And they shall look to the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer.” From then until now, the Lord has patiently allowed us to learn the principles that govern temporal salvation. It took the terrible economic depression of the 1930s to restimulate the Church to apply revealed principles and develop a formal plan under which the priesthood could minister to our needy. The fundamentals of the Welfare Plan were articulated in 1933. Stake presidents and bishops were asked to survey their needs. Because of its great complexity, the matter was taken under advisement for three years.In October 1936, the First Presidency officially put into operation the Welfare Plan of the Church. You are acquainted with their published statement. And I quote, in part:“Our primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a  under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self respect be once more established amongst our people.” (In  Oct. 1936, p. 3, italics added.)Perhaps, like me, you have heard this declaration of principle many times and yet not fully considered that our individual efforts are to be united through a —a system that is balanced and integrated, not merely that men shall be clothed and fed, but, to continue to quote from the Presidency, “The eternal man should be built up by self-reliance, by creative activity, by honorable labor, by service. From the beginning the long-range objective of the Welfare Plan was to build character in the members of the Church, both givers and receivers alike.”The welfare system has expanded and matured and is now referred to as the  The system is established on the six foundational principles of Welfare Services, which are love, work, self-reliance, service, stewardship, and consecration. While the bishop authorizes assistance  the system, each of us contributes resources to the system.No bishop stands alone in his ministry. Thanks to the consecrations of the Saints, he has a full range of services and aids available through this great resource system. Many in the Church perceive a storehouse to be just a general store where food and clothing may be obtained on a bishop’s order. However, as members’ needs have expanded, the Storehouse Resource System has broadened to include:Bishops may now provide clothing, shelter, food, medical assistance, employment, adoption and foster care services, and professional therapy for the emotionally afflicted.Surely the “founding fathers” of the Welfare Plan must be thrilled to see the magnificent evolution of the system they envisioned. Let us thank the Lord for those who in darkness see, and from doubtings lead! Let us thank the Lord for prophets who can see, in finished form, the visions of the mind. It was this capability that President Romney referred to in his quotation of Brigham Young when he said:“If any of you had a vision of Zion, it was shown to you in its beauty and glory after Satan was bound. … You did not see a vision of driving cattle across the plains and where you would be mired in this or that mudhole. You did not see the stampedes among the cattle, and those of a worse character among the people.“But you saw the beauty and glory of Zion that you might be encouraged and prepared to meet the afflictions, sorrows and disappointments of this mortal life and overcome them and be made ready to enjoy the glory of the Lord as it was revealed to you.”President Romney then concludes: “We have … visions of the welfare program. We have great visions of the redemption of Zion and the building of the new Jerusalem, the inauguration of the United Order, the coming of the Millennium. But before these visions materialize, we must travel some rough roads.” (Addresses delivered at the special Welfare Meeting, 5 Apr. 1949, p. 13.)Could this have been the day envisioned by President J. Reuben Clark, who said in 1942: “We have all said that the Welfare Plan is not the United Order and was not intended to be. However, I should like to suggest to you that perhaps, after all, when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation—it is not so yet—we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great  of the United Order.” (In  Oct. 1942, p. 57; italics added.)I am persuaded that in the ensuing thirty-six years since President Clark made this statement the Welfare Plan has more  Last October Conference President Kimball stirred our imaginations with this challenge:“As I considered my remarks for this Welfare session, I was struck by the thought that … a generation has passed since the reestablishment of this great welfare work. … In my mind’s eye the great leaders of this effort passed in review. …“As I recounted their contributions and the Church’s splendid growth in Welfare Services, I encountered this question: Do our people today and more particularly do our regional, stake, and ward leaders today  as did those of this previous generation?” (Nov. 1977, p. 76.)It is my conviction, President Kimball, that this generation accepts the challenge and has indeed “lengthened its stride” in its present implementation! We have entered a new era in Welfare Services, one characterized by improvement in five areas of activity:First— so that production, processing, and distribution now flow more effectively. This means that priesthood employment leaders need to integrate better their efforts with the local Welfare Services Employment Center. It means better utilization of the great volunteer efforts of the Saints, whether on our project farms, or in LDS Social Services offices, or in Deseret Industries, or whatever.Next,  so that the Storehouse Resource System operates as an integrated whole, thereby allowing us to control and balance its growth. Superior planning and good judgment will reduce the possibility of compromise in establishing and maintaining all elements of the system.Third,  in all aspects of our welfare operations. The last four decades of welfare work have served as a powerful schoolmaster to teach us basic principles and disciplines. With new technologies and management skills, we can far exceed our previous productivity and efficiency.Next,  Our quorum representatives and visiting teachers, as agents of the bishop, must get more involved in searching out the distressed and the needy. In our time of abundance, we must be generous with our surplus, which may be consecrated through the medium of the fast offering into the resource system. We are not restricted to paying the equivalent value of two meals only. Our prophet has entreated us to give even ten times more than two meals where possible. (See  Oct. 1974, p. 184.) The prosperous should think beyond their ward and stake boundaries. Through the fast offering, we are distributing our expressions of love through the bishop to the one in need. This is the Lord’s way, wherein both giver and receiver are blessed to the ultimate salvation of both.Finally,  which implies a closer communion with the Savior and more sensitivity to the Spirit in our daily lives. Our prophet has counseled us to “emulate the Savior in your life by serving and consecrating, by overcoming temporally so that you might more fully achieve spiritually.” ( Nov. 1977, p. 79.)My brothers and sisters, it is my sincere belief that this new era of Welfare Services implementation by our generation is proceeding as the Lord has ordained it. It goes forth to meet a perceived but not a completely defined need. President Harold B. Lee, in his last public reference to Welfare Services, stated:“There is no person who knows the purpose for which this Welfare Program is being instituted, but hardly before sufficient preparation has been made the real purpose will be revealed, and when that time comes, it will challenge every resource of the Church to meet it.” (Church Employees Christmas Program, 1973.)Perilous times await us. Judgments will be poured out upon the wicked. Saints must live in obedience to righteous principles to be safe from the calamities declared by holy prophets. There is much work to be done before the return of our Lord and Savior. It is true that we do not know precisely the  of the Lord’s second coming. As Elder Bruce R. McConkie says, “Deliberately and advisedly the actual time of his coming has been left uncertain and unspecified, so that men of each succeeding age shall be led to prepare for it as though it would be in their mortal lives.” ( vol. I, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1973, p. 675.) Now there is always some risk in speaking of prophetic events in connection with welfare planning because there are those who jump to speculative conclusions. But the Lord gives us prophecy that we might prepare ourselves: for he said, “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.” The Storehouse Resource System enables us to apply the principles of preparation, love, service, sacrifice, and consecration. It is only upon these principles and these works that Zion is ever established. I bear witness that while we now face and will always face difficult challenges, this is God’s kingdom; this is his work; we are his people; and our ultimate triumph through the Lord is assured, to which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.