Some people continue to challenge Book of Mormon. Not only do they attack the authenticity of that sacred volume, but they question our right to have scriptures other than the Bible.We Latter-day Saints have three volumes of scripture in addition to the Bible. They are additional witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ, declaring to all who are willing to read them that He is our Savior and our Redeemer. In this day of trouble and doubt, shall we not be grateful for increased affirmations of the Christ?Having been taught that the Bible contains all of the word of God, some ask us why we have these other scriptures. They do not realize that the Bible provides for more scripture and that it points to a pattern established anciently by the Lord in which He placed prophets on earth to provide that scripture.Their revelations were recorded, together with some of the history of the times, and became scripture. As each new prophet wrote, his records were added to the existing scripture. In this way there was a constantly growing volume of the sacred word. Eventually many of these writings were compiled into a book which we know as the Bible.This process continued as long as the Lord had prophets on earth, both in Old and New Testament times. Never was it thought that this accumulated record contained all of the word of God because, over the years, the Lord continued to send new prophets who received new revelations which in turn became new and additional scripture. It was a set pattern of the Lord from the days of the patriarchs to the time of John the Revelator.There are some who do not realize that there were prophets in the original Christian church and that it was the intention of the Lord that they should continue in the Church until we all come to a unity of the faith.But instead of unity among Christians, what do we have? We have division, which is overwhelming evidence of the need for the continued ministry of Christian prophets.Do you remember how Paul explained this principle to the Ephesians? He said that the very foundation of the Church rested upon the apostles and the prophets, with Jesus Christ as the chief cornerstone. Then, describing the organization of the Church, he said that the Savior “gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers” as officers in the Church. He declared their purpose to be “for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body” of the Church. Is there ever a time when the members can stop working toward perfection, when they no longer are benefited by activity in the Church, or when they do not require teaching and edifying?Paul said that these officers who teach and edify are needed in the Church until we become perfect, until we reach the fulness of the measure of the stature of Christ. Heaven knows that none of us has achieved that distinction.But what was another reason these officers should remain in the Church? Paul says they were given to us as a protection “that we henceforth be no more [as] children tossed to and fro … with every wind of doctrine.” They will protect you from the false teachings of cultists and splinter groups and from the misleading philosophies of men.The Church of Jesus Christ, then, should always be led by living apostles and prophets who would receive the constant guidance of heaven. They would continue always in the Church as seers and revelators for the people.But as they so ministered they would be providing also new and additional scripture appropriate to the times in which they lived, according to the Lord’s pattern.The prophets of the early Christian church ministered in their day just as the Old Testament prophets did during the preceding centuries. And why? Because they followed this same divine pattern, for as Amos explained, the Lord works only through prophets. When there are no prophets, there is no divine direction, and without such guidance the people walk in darkness.It is an infallible sign of the true church that it has in it divinely chosen, living prophets to guide it, men who receive current revelation from God and whose recorded works become new scripture.It is an infallible sign of the true church also that it will produce new and additional scripture arising out of the ministrations of those prophets. This unfailing pattern of God is clearly made manifest through his dealings with his people from the beginning.The Lord himself predicted that there would be other volumes of scripture in addition to the Bible. He knew, however, that some people would refuse to believe and would object to receiving more scripture. So He said:“Many of the Gentiles shall say: A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible.“Know ye not that there are more nations than one? Know ye not that I, the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I remember those who are upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule in the heavens above and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations of the earth?“Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my word? Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto another? Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like unto another. And when the two nations shall run together the testimony of the two nations shall run together also.“And I do this that I may prove unto many that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever; and that I speak forth my words according to mine own pleasure. And because that I have spoken one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another; for my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever.“Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I have not caused more to be written.“For I command all men, both in the east and in the west, and in the north, and in the south, and in the islands of the sea, that they shall write the words which I speak unto them; for out of the books which shall be written I will judge the world, every man according to their works, according to that which is written.“For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel, which I have led away, and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall write it.“And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the words of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have the words of the Nephites and the Jews.“And it shall come to pass that my people, which are of the house of Israel, shall be gathered home unto the lands of their possessions; and my word also shall be gathered in one.” So said the Lord.We, of course, have the Bible as do other Christians. But we also have the writings of the Nephites, who were the ancient inhabitants of America, and who recorded their revelations and history in what is known today as the Book of Mormon. And what is the Book of Mormon?The Apostle Paul at one time defined faith as the evidence of things not seen. The Book of Mormon is solid, tangible evidence of both the seen and the unseen.It is a book that can be felt and handled and read. It is a physical object. It cannot be explained out of existence. The critics cannot make it go away. As a published book it is here—tangible, physical, and material.We can hold it in our hands. We can give it away as a gift. We can send it through the mail. If we wished, we could drop it in the ocean or burn it in a fire, or we might even study it page by page for spiritual light and inspiration.It is a physical volume which was printed on an electric press, in a commercial printing house, on paper made in a commercial paper mill, and with the use of ordinary printers’ ink.In other words, the Book of Mormon is a physical object, just as is the Bible or any other book. As a physical object, no one can say that it does not exist. Neither can it be explained away.But where did it come from?It was brought by an angel of God who came to earth for the particular purpose of delivering that book to Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet.But does anybody believe in angels in this enlightened age?If you believe the Bible, you  believe in angels. And further, if you read the Bible you will know that it plainly says that an angel was designated to come to earth in the latter days to give a particular book to a particular man within a particular time frame.To identify that man, the scripture refers to him as an unlearned man. Strange, isn’t it, that the prophet Isaiah would do this? But that angel did come within the specified time, and came to Joseph Smith who was the specified unlearned man. The book was then translated by Joseph Smith through the power of God and published to the world as the Book of Mormon.There is no plausible explanation for the origin of that book except the one given by Joseph Smith.The critics have tried other explanations for a hundred years, but have met only with dismal failure.Who was this angel of whom we speak? His name was Moroni. Inasmuch as he brought the Book of Mormon, his coming made that tangible book physical, material evidence that there are angels of God and that one of them came to Joseph Smith and gave him this book.And who was Moroni? He was one of the prophets who lived in ancient America and died 1,500 years ago.To appear in our day, obviously he had to come back from the dead. Our whole religion is based on angelic personages coming back from the dead. Then immortality is real, proved by the fact that an immortal personage delivered this tangible, material Book of Mormon to a modern, mortal man.In coming back from the dead, Moroni was a physical being of literal, corporeal, material reality. He held those heavy gold plates in his hands. A block of metal measuring seven-by-seven-by-eight inches could weigh anywhere from thirty to fifty pounds. But Moroni held them in his hands and turned over the pages with his fingers. His were flesh and bone hands, resurrected hands.Then the Book of Mormon, as a physical, material, tangible object, also becomes evidence of the resurrection of the dead.Let us remember that twelve modern men saw and handled those same plates after Moroni had delivered them to Joseph Smith. In describing this experience, eight of them said that they handled them with their hands and added, “We have seen and hefted and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have spoken.”  p. vii.)They handled the plates with their hands. So did Moroni.They turned over the pages, one by one. So did Moroni.They examined the engravings on those plates, some of which were made by Moroni 1,500 years ago.So the published Book of Mormon is a physical witness to the fact of immortality, to the resurrection from the dead, and to the reality of God and His Son, Jesus Christ.In this day of doubt and criticism, should we not be grateful for physical evidence of unseen things? Then shall we not accept the Book of Mormon as such evidence?The chief reason we have the Book of Mormon is that in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall all things be established. (See  We have the Bible; we also have the Book of Mormon. They constitute two voices—two volumes of scripture—from two widely separated ancient peoples, both bearing testimony to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ.But we have two other scriptural witnesses also, making four altogether. They are the modern scriptures given as revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and they, too, declare that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior, the Creator, the long-promised Messiah.The world has been so confused by the conflicting creeds of men that the truth had to be given to mankind once again to disabuse their minds and correct their thinking. There was only one way in which this could be done and that was by new revelation. But to have new revelation requires the presence of a prophet to receive it, for as Amos said, the Lord will not act except through prophets. (See There was no prophet in all Christendom at the time the new revelation was to be given. So God raised up a new prophet to receive that revelation, to publish the Book of Mormon, and to direct the preaching of the true gospel in every nation.And who was that prophet? Joseph Smith, Jr. He was the divinely called seer of latter days. He was the modern revelator. He was the translator and publisher of the Book of Mormon under the direction of Almighty God.Not only was he a divinely chosen prophet himself, but under his hands other prophets were raised up to carry on the work after him.We are those other prophets! We hold the divine authority of Jesus Christ! We speak in his name and declare his word! And our testimony is true!This we solemnly affirm with all the power of our being, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.This conference, my brethren and sisters, is an important anniversary for me. It was an even twenty years ago that I first spoke from this pulpit as a General Authority of the Church. I was filled with fear and feelings of inadequacy that Sunday morning of 1958. Now, twenty years and forty conferences later, I still have some of those same feelings. And so I pray for the direction of the Holy Spirit that anxiety may be replaced by inspiration.Without wishing to look back, but rather to note the progress of the Church, I have checked a few figures given at that 1958 conference. The Church membership reported on that occasion stood at just over a million and a half. Yesterday the comparable figure given was almost four million, or a gain of roughly 166 percent in only two decades. In 1958 there were 273 stakes, with approximately 2,500 wards and branches. The figure given us yesterday was 885 stakes at the close of the year, and as of last Thursday this had reached 937 either organized or approved for organization. Today there are approximately 7,500 wards and independent branches, three times the number there were twenty years ago.These few figures are sufficient to illustrate the remarkable phenomenon that I personally have witnessed in the space of twenty short years. No boast is intended in this. Rather, I am grateful, for behind these figures I have seen men, women, and children in many lands whose lives have been enriched, in whose homes there is more of peace and love, and whose understanding of their place in the eternal plan of God has increased through membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.This remarkable growth has come about because there has been the courage to teach and the faith to listen on the part of tens of thousands who by the power of the Holy Spirit have received testimony of the living Christ, and of the restoration to earth of his true gospel.Last Sunday the Christian world celebrated Easter in remembrance of the resurrection, when the risen Lord appeared first to Mary Magdalene, and later that day to the ten apostles, Thomas being absent.“The other disciples therefore said unto him, we have seen the Lord.” But Thomas, like so many then and now, said, “Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.” Have you not heard others speak as Thomas spoke? “Give us,” they say, “the empirical evidence. Prove before our very eyes, and our ears, and our hands, else we will not believe.” This is the language of the time in which we live. Thomas the Doubter has become the example of men in all ages who refuse to accept other than that which they can physically prove and explain—as if they could prove love, or faith, or even such physical phenomena as electricity.But to continue with the narrative, eight days later the apostles were together again, this time Thomas with them. “Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.”Singling out Thomas, he said: “Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and ”Thomas, astonished and shaken, answered and said unto him, “My Lord and my God.“Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.”  italics added.)To all within the sound of my voice who may have doubts, I repeat the words given Thomas as he felt the wounded hands of the Lord: “Be not faithless, but believing.” Believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the greatest figure of time and eternity. Believe that his matchless life reached back before the world was formed. Believe that he was the Creator of the earth on which we live. Believe that he was Jehovah of the Old Testament, that he was the Messiah of the New Testament, that he died and was resurrected, that he visited these western continents and taught the people here, that he ushered in this final gospel dispensation, and that he lives, the living Son of the living God, our Savior and our Redeemer.John says of the creation that “all things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.” Can any man who has walked beneath the stars at night, can anyone who has seen the touch of spring upon the land doubt the hand of divinity in creation? So observing the beauties of the earth, one is wont to speak as did the Psalmist: “The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.” All of beauty in the earth bears the fingerprint of the Master Creator, of those hands which, after they took the form of mortality and then immortality, Thomas insisted on touching before he would believe.Be not faithless, but believe in Jehovah, he whose finger wrote upon the tablets of stone amid the thunders of Sinai—“Thou shalt have no other gods before me.”  The Decalogue, which is the basis of all good law governing human relations, is the product of his divine genius. As you look upon the vast body of legalisms designed to protect men and society, pause and know that it has its roots in those few brief and timeless declarations given by the all-wise Jehovah to Moses, the leader of Israel.Believe in him who was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who was the source of inspiration of all the ancient prophets—as they spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. They spoke for him when they rebuked kings, when they chastised the nations, and when as seers they looked forward to the coming of a promised Messiah, declaring by the power of revelation, “Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.” “And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord.” “And the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.” Doubt not, but believe that it was he who was born to earth in a manger when there was no room in the inn. Well did an angel ask a prophet who had foreseen these things in vision: “Knowest thou the condescension of God?”  I suppose none of us can fully understand that—how the great Jehovah should come among men, his birth in a manger, among a hated people, in a vassal state. But at his birth there was an angelic chorus that sang of his glory. There were shepherds who worshiped him. There was a new star in the east. There were wise men who traveled far to bring tribute of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. One can surmise they touched those tiny hands in wonder and awe as they presented their gifts to the newborn king.Herod the Great, who knew of the prophecies, feared those hands and sought to destroy them, and in the horrible slaughter of the innocents brought blood upon his own hands and head.Believe that John the Baptist spoke by the power of revelation when he declared of Jesus, “Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.”  And that it was the voice of the Almighty that declared above the waters of Jordan, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” Believe and know that he was a man of miracles. He who had created the world and governed it as the great Jehovah understood the elements of earth and all the functions of life. Beginning at Cana, where he turned the water into wine, he went on to cause the lame to walk, the blind to see, the dead to return to life—he, the Master Physician, who healed the sick by the authority inherent in him as the Son of God.He was the comforter of the burdened of his time, and of all the generations who have come after who have truly believed in him. Said he to each of us:“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” I spoke one day to a friend escaped from his native land. With the fall of his nation, he had been arrested and interned. His wife and children had been able to get away, but for three years and more he had been a prisoner without means of communication with those he loved. The food had been wretched, the living conditions oppressive, with no prospects for improvement.“What sustained you through all those dark days?” I asked.He responded: “My faith; my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I put my burdens on him, and then they seemed so much the lighter.”On one occasion while the Lord was traveling through Samaria, he wearied and thirsted. Pausing at Jacob’s well, he rested and requested a drink from the woman who had come to draw water. In the conversation that followed he declared the saving power of his teaching, saying: “Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:“But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him [it] shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.” In that same conversation he declared his identity when the woman at the well spoke of the promised Messiah, “which is called Christ.” He, without equivocation, said, “I that speak unto thee am he.” Doubt not, but believe that he is the Master of life and death. To the sorrowing Martha he declared his eternal power, saying: “I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.” Were words so great as these ever spoken for the comfort of those who have lost loved ones? Thomas was present when those words were given and also when Lazarus afterwards was called forth from the tomb. Yet he doubted the Lord’s power to bring himself forth after the terrible death upon the cross, asserting to his fellow apostles that except he feel the wounds in the hands he would not believe. Small wonder that Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be not faithless, but believing.”We, like Thomas, are so prone to forget the evidences of his matchless life and power. Those evidences are not found alone in the Bible, the testament of the Old World. There is a testament of the New World which was brought forth by the gift and power of God to the convincing of the Jew and the gentile that Jesus is the Christ. It contains another gospel, beautiful in language and powerful in spirit.Jesus in his earthly ministry spoke of other sheep of another fold from those he was then teaching and declared that they also should hear his voice, “and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.” At some time following his resurrection a voice was heard from the heavens among a people who were gathered together in the Land Bountiful somewhere on these western continents. It was the voice of God, and it said unto them:“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.“And … they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them,” declaring unto them:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.” He invited them, as he invited Thomas, to feel his hands and side, and they were astonished and cried, “Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!” They doubted not, but believed, as have millions who have read this marvelous witness of the resurrected Lord. If there be those of you out there who are listening who know not of this fifth gospel and desire it, your request will bring it, and it will come with a promise that if you will read prayerfully you shall know of the truth of this remarkable new witness for Christ.And there is yet another testifier, for as certainly as the voice of God declared the divine Sonship of Jesus at the waters of Jordan, and again on the Mount of Transfiguration, and yet again at the Land Bountiful, even so again that same introduction was made in the opening of this gospel dispensation in a glorious vision in which God the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ appeared and spoke to a young man who had come seeking, and who in the years that followed spoke as a prophet of the risen Lord, even giving his life in testimony of him who had died upon the cross.With so many evidences, and with the conviction borne in our hearts by the power of the Holy Ghost, we add in words of soberness and sincerity and love our testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ; wherefore, O man, “be not faithless, but believing” in Him who is the living Son of God, our Savior and our Redeemer, I humbly pray and testify in His holy name, even the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.