It is now my privilege and responsibility to address you for just a few minutes. I certainly have enjoyed—and I hope all the young men and priesthood holders, wherever you are, have enjoyed and appreciated—the talks that have been given and this fine music which we have heard.As I look out upon those gathered here tonight and think of the thousands listening in, I realize that I am talking to priesthood leaders, priesthood holders, and those who will assume positions of leadership in the future. Those who are leaders now should already have become men of integrity, men with character, men whose ideals and standards are of the highest quality, worthy of emulation by those whom they lead. So tonight I, along with the others who have addressed you, want to direct my remarks to the young men who will come up through the ranks of the Aaronic Priesthood and eventually take over the jobs we older fellows now hold. Yes, no doubt one of you will some day be standing here at this pulpit as one of the General Authorities of the Church. One of you may even become the President, and certainly as you remain true and faithful and keep the commandments, you will all advance in the kingdom of God.What an awesome thought! How necessary and important it is that we all continually strive to improve ourselves and prepare for the day when a call might come to serve in a new or more responsible position! The whole purpose of our existence in mortality is to build the kingdom of God and to prove ourselves worthy to go back into his presence. You are here tonight because you sense this responsibility and want to be numbered among those whom the Lord will call his own.What must you do that you are not already doing? As I think about this and the requirements that we must meet in order to be capable and profitable servants, it seems to boil down to a matter of being worthy of a proper recommendation by someone in authority.The First Presidency and some other General Authorities are currently preparing for a series of area conferences in far-flung locations where we have members of the Church. As we make these preparations it is necessary that we have passports or visas or tourist cards in order to satisfy the requirements of the governments of the countries which we will visit. These credentials must be properly endorsed by the respective authorities involved, and only after conforming to all the regulations can we receive our papers which will allow us to enter the countries of our choice.Not long ago Elder David Haight of the Council of the Twelve had been assigned to a stake conference in Mexico. As he reached the border, he found that he did not have with him the necessary papers which would allow him to enter the country. In spite of his plea and the urgency of his mission, the officials had no authority to admit him without proper credentials. Therefore, he could not attend the conference.So it is with our progress in the priesthood. We must be properly recommended and endorsed by those in authority before we can advance from one office to another, and we cannot receive the certification or proof of our advancement without being worthy, or meeting the requirements. It will be so when we want to enter the kingdom of heaven to join with others who have gone before, and live eternally with God, our Father.It is true that some steal across the line to other countries without credentials, but if and when discovered they are penalized and deported according to the law. In the Church, some who are guilty of transgression will lie to be advanced in the priesthood, to go on missions, or to enter the temple. But the Lord knows, and they cannot expect to enjoy his blessings.Throughout my life in government, in industry, and in the Church, I have had many people ask me for letters of recommendation or reference to assist them in obtaining employment or a promotion. I also have had heads of industry or government ask for my recommendation regarding certain individuals whom they may be considering for employment.It is always with a feeling of pleasure and satisfaction when I can respond that the individual is worthy of their consideration, that he is honest, dependable, has done well in school, gets along well with people, is a willing worker, does not procrastinate, and is loyal and trustworthy. Under such circumstances I add that I can recommend him without any reservation, and state that he will be an asset to the company.It is with sadness that I respond when I cannot recommend an individual without reservation because of some undesirable traits of character or some quality which in my judgment would keep him from performing to the satisfaction of his employer. In fact, I usually say that I am not in a position to vouch for him, or I do not respond to the query. It is as important that I be honest in my letter of reference as that the prospective employee be an honest and upright individual.When choosing a vocation, one should consider what his personal qualifications are; that is, if he chooses to be a medical doctor, he, in addition to possessing the qualities which should be part of each man’s character, such as good morals, honesty, integrity, dependability, etc., should be sensitive to the well-being of people, and go into the profession not only because it can be very lucrative, but also because he is really concerned and interested in improving the health of mankind. A doctor must be someone who will be prepared to give of his time at any hour of the day or night without thought for his own comfort and convenience.If one wants to be an airline pilot, he should be able to think and react calmly and clearly in the face of unforeseen or unexpected occurrences in the performance of his duties. A lawyer needs the ability to express himself well in both the spoken and written word. A salesman must have enthusiasm and be able to meet people well; he must have the ability to convince people whom he is trying to convert to his product. A secretary or receptionist must be able to keep confidences and to help create an atmosphere of friendliness and helpfulness in the office where people wait for their appointments.So you see, for every type of job classification there are some basic and some specialized qualifications necessary to perform the required work with the greatest efficiency. All through our lives we should be preparing ourselves with a combination of the characteristics essential to filling our niche in life.A few years ago the Church distributed to our young people a series of small cards with a picture on one side and a message on the other. The series was called “Be Honest with Yourself.” I quote from one of these with a heading, “Can You Pass This Test?”“Here is a classroom during an examination hour. The students are unwatched—the teacher has put them on their honor. Except for their own consciences and the disapproval of classmates, they are completely free to peek into those reference books or look over the shoulders of their classmates for easy answers. What will they do? What would you do?“None of these reasons is an honest reason; none will hold up in the test of time and conscience. Cheating is dishonest wherever you find it—always was and always will be.“The first cheater was Satan, ‘the father of lies.’ He tried to cheat our premortal spirits out of our birthright to free agency and eternal progression. Satan lost. Cheaters never really win.“When anyone cheats, whether by taking help to pass a school test or through more flagrant forms of dishonesty, he cheats himself first.“Don’t do it! Always, in all ways—”This training in honesty begins in the home. Each of us has personal possessions which are ours alone. We can and should share such things as toys and games and our services to one another; but we have money, or jewelry, or clothing that is the personal property of each and should not be taken without the consent of the owner. A child who respects such honesty in the home is not apt to violate the principle outside the home. On the other hand, lack of such training fosters disrespect for the rights and property of others.I realize that young people today are under a lot of pressure from outside influences and feel that in order to be popular they have to go along with their friends on some things which are against their personal standards. But I implore you to consider the consequences of compromising your principles which may adversely affect your whole life.As a child matures and starts working for money, whether for his parents or his neighbors, he will deal honestly and give honest labor for the returns he gets. Often the earliest employment for a young man is as a newsboy. Countless numbers of our successful businessmen today got their start in this occupation. They learned to be prompt and dependable. I knew a newsboy who always had his papers delivered on time regardless of the weather, and he handled his collections in a pleasant, courteous, and businesslike manner. He had many satisfied customers and had no difficulty in getting new subscriptions. This early training helped him to become a most successful businessman.Another boy I knew—and I have known several like him—did not deliver his papers on time, got mixed up on his collections, and the news office had so many complaints about him that they had to replace him. It is not  work we do, but  we do it that counts.When I was president of TransCanada Pipelines, we had an office boy who did only what we asked him to do. He would wait until called to run an errand, or stand around waiting for instructions, never offering to be helpful. As the company grew and the job became more than he could handle, we hired another lad, even younger, who was alert and always looking for extra things to do to be helpful. He would finish an errand and then see or ask for something else to do. In just a few months one of the departments wanted him for a position of greater responsibility, and within two years he had three advancements, salary increases, and more responsibilities. The other lad remained an errand boy.I remember, too, serving as a Scoutmaster, and noticing the differences in the boys. Some were alert and anxious to learn, to keep the Scout Oath and Promise, to be of service, and to learn all they could about taking care of themselves under all conditions. There would be many stories to tell about Scouts who had saved their own lives and the lives of others through the training which they received as they took advantage of their opportunities. There were other Scouts who did as little as they could and were only interested in seeing how much foolishness they could get away with. I always wanted the boys to have a good time as long as they were honest and dependable and determined to keep the Scout Oath and Promise and complete their training.I remember so well one of the chief Scouts in England, who, when he was in the army during the war, had the responsibility of selecting soldiers for highly confidential missions. He was always happy, he said, when he found a man who had been a good Scout and could put his arm to the square with his three fingers extended and say that he kept the Scout Law and the Scout Promise. He said he did not hesitate to recommend a man under those conditions because he knew that he could depend on him, and knew then that he was trustworthy. He said he was never let down by such a man.Let me give you an example of how important it is to put first things first if you are to be successful in life. As a boy I was raised on a farm, where I remained until I went away to school. I had observed how a farmer on one side of the road was very successful, while one on the other side was almost a failure as a farmer. What made the difference? They received the same amount of sunshine and rain. They planted the same kind of seeds. But one had beautiful and bounteous crops, while the other had no harvest or a poor one.I observed that the successful farmer worked at his job. He would do his plowing, discing, harrowing, seeding, and harvesting in the proper season and at the proper time, while his neighbor was procrastinating, or off hunting and fishing while the work was still to be done. We must learn to set our priorities straight. No one can be successful in his line of work unless he works at it in the proper season and plays in the proper season.Work is a great antidote for many things. On the wall of a reception room at a well-known neurological institute hangs a card, intended not for the sick, but for the well:“If you are poor, work. If you are rich, work. If you are burdened with seemingly unfair responsibilities, work.“If you are happy, continue to work; idleness gives room for doubts and fears. If sorrow overwhelms you, and loved ones seem not true, work. If disappointments come, work.“If faith falters and reason fails, just work. When dreams are shattered and hopes seem dead—work. Work as if your life were in peril; it really is.“No matter what ails you, work. Work faithfully, and work with faith. Work is the greatest material remedy available. Work will cure both mental and physical afflictions.”Now, young men, if you were to ask me for my help in seeking employment, what kind of recommendation could I give for you? Would I be able to say that you were completely honest and dependable and honorable in all your dealings? Or would I have to say that you measured up to some of these things, but that you were lazy, or had not done well in school, or that you would not follow instructions, or that you were a troublemaker, or disloyal, or any other thing that would not make you a desirable employee?If it is so important to be highly recommended or to have adequate references in order to get employment, how much more important it is that we live worthy of a good or satisfactory recommendation from our Church authorities so that we can progress in the various offices and functions of the priesthood, and eventually gain admission to the kingdom of heaven.As holders of the priesthood we should know that God is our Father; that his Son Jesus Christ is our Savior; that through his atoning sacrifice we can be resurrected, and by following his teachings gain eternal life; that through revelation The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established; that Spencer W. Kimball is a prophet of God and President of the church of Jesus Christ; and that the priesthood which we hold is the power of God delegated to us to act in his name.May we strive every day to live worthy in every way of this great privilege and blessing, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.Brethren, I have a prayer in my heart that what I have to say can be said under the direction of the Spirit to our edification, and I invite you to join me in that prayer. I have in mind saying a few things about the responsibilities of priesthood bearers. My beloved brethren: I shall first speak to us fathers, concerning our responsibility to teach and train our children. I shall then speak to you Aaronic Priesthood holders.I recently spent Saturday night in a hotel. Sunday morning I was awakened by rowdy talking. The language was profane, filthy, and disgusting. I was shocked to learn that the speakers were mere children. Into my mind came the proverb:“Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.” Then came the words of the revelation: “Little children … cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children … that great things may be required at the hand of their fathers.” I was saddened as I thought about the suffering which these children and their fathers will have to endure because of the neglect of the training “required at the hand of their fathers.”We fathers should never forget the Lord’s decree that “inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, … that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.” Referring to these instructions, the  has this to say:“Many people in the world consider that they have done their full duty to their children, when they have given them shelter, food, clothing, and education. … But Latter-day Saints have a still more important duty, as parents. They must teach their children. … It is not enough to send them to Primaries, Sunday-schools, and day-schools. The parents themselves have a personal duty to perform as teachers of their children. They must see to it that the little ones are … taught to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord.” (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl,  rev. ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 414.)If we fathers would frequently read verses 40 to 50 of the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants,  we would be greatly helped to keep alert to our divinely imposed responsibilities to teach and train our children.And now let me remind you Aaronic Priesthood holders that you yourselves have a responsibility in this matter. The Lord holds you responsible for your own conduct from the time you are eight years of age.At birth, each of you was enlightened by the Spirit of Christ. This Spirit, sometimes called conscience, gave you a sense of right and wrong even before you were eight years old. When you were baptized and confirmed, you were given the gift of the Holy Ghost to help you.At twelve most of you received the Aaronic Priesthood. To you, God actually delegated some of his priesthood power and authority. He has so much confidence in you that he has given you authority to perform certain functions in his church—functions which the Savior himself performed. When you perform them, your actions are just as sacred and authoritative as when Jesus or his apostles performed them.Concerning Aaronic Priesthood responsibilities, the Lord, at the time he organized the Church, said:“The priest’s duty is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament,“And visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties. …“The teacher’s duty,” he said, “is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them; …“And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty.” The deacon’s duty is to pass the sacrament, gather fast offerings, and “to warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite all to come unto Christ.” (See The blessings you will receive, if you properly perform your assigned Aaronic Priesthood duties, will be glorious.I hope you will have such a desire and a determination to so magnify your present callings that when you receive the Melchizedek Priesthood you will continue on until you are numbered among the “elect of God,” which the Lord promises in the great revelation on priesthood as follows:“Whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods … and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.“They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God.” As a general rule, great and noble men have been noble boys who built their foundations for greatness while in their Aaronic Priesthood years.As I now refer to some of these great men, I suggest you note their virtues and resolve to emulate them.Consider, for example, the great moral virtue of chastity demonstrated by Joseph. At seventeen years of age he was taken into Egypt as a slave and sold to “Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s.” His upright, efficient conduct so impressed Potiphar that he made him master of all his possessions, including his home and household. Joseph was so attractive that Potiphar’s wife repeatedly sought to seduce him. He, however, rejected her advances, saying, “How … can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?” She lied about him, and he was imprisoned.Because of his integrity, however, the Lord so blessed him that he was released from prison and became Pharaoh’s chief administrator. Eventually he became an instrument in preserving the whole house of Israel. Most of us here tonight proudly claim to be numbered among his posterity.Every priesthood bearer, Aaronic and Melchizedek, should observe Joseph’s standards of chastity.Daniel was an example of courage.As a youth he was taken into Babylon to be trained by King Nebuchadnezzar. At their peril, he and his three Hebrew companions refused to break their word of wisdom. They refused to eat the rich foods and other foods that were not good for them. (See Later, Daniel further demonstrated his courage by advising two kings of interpretations the Lord had revealed to him, Daniel, of manifestations which the kings had received, manifestations which portended evil for them. Daniel told the first king that he would lose his mind, and become like a beast of the field, eating grass as an ox. He told the second king that he would be cut down from the pinnacle of power. (See   So advising these absolute monarchs evidenced great courage in this young man Daniel.He evidenced superb courage of another kind when, in defiance of the king’s edict, he chose to be thrown into the lions’ den rather than neglect to pray to his Father in Heaven. (See The great virtue of faith was demonstrated by Nephi when as a youth he said:“I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.” This was his response to the commandment the Lord gave through his father, Lehi, that he and his brethren return to Jerusalem to obtain the records from Laban.When his brother Laman failed to persuade Laban to part with the records and he and Lemuel were about to return to their father in the wilderness without them, Nephi said:“As the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.” He then persuaded them to get the gold and silver and other riches they had left in the land of their inheritance and offer them to Laban in exchange for the records. This they did, to no avail.Nephi then said to his complaining brothers, as they urged that they return to their father in the wilderness without the records:“Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?” Nephi then, led by the Spirit of the Lord, went in alone and came out with the records.Great was the faith of Nephi.In case some of you Aaronic Priesthood bearers feel that you are too young to assume the responsibility of your calling, consider these quotations from the writings of Mormon:“About the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, … ) and … said unto me: …“When ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and … go to the … hill which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited … the sacred engravings concerning this people. …“Take the plates of Nephi … and … engrave on [them] all the things that ye have observed concerning this people.” These instructions Mormon received when he was but ten years old.Five years later he wrote:“And I, being fifteen years of age … , there began to be a war again between the Nephites and the Lamanites. And notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore the people of Nephi appointed me … the leader of their armies.“Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the Lamanites.”  It would seem that an Aaronic Priesthood bearer inclined to hesitate to perform the duties of his office because of his youth could take courage from the exploits of Mormon.In his youth Joseph Smith, the prophet, exhibited all the noble virtues other boys who became great men have evidenced during their Aaronic Priesthood-age years. He possessed the morality demonstrated by Joseph in Egypt, the courage of Daniel, the faith of Nephi, and the reliability of Mormon.At fourteen years of age, he had the faith to act upon the promise of James: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.” So acting, he received his first vision.Courage and reliability he demonstrated in his reaction to the abuse which followed his telling about that vision.“I soon found,” he wrote, “… that my telling the story had excited a great deal of prejudice against me among professors of religion, and was the cause of great persecution, which continued to increase; and though I was an obscure boy, only between fourteen and fifteen years of age, and my circumstances in life such as to make a boy of no consequence in the world, yet men of high standing would take notice sufficient to excite the public mind against me, and create a bitter persecution; and this was common among all the sects—all united to persecute me. …“It was nevertheless a fact that I had beheld a vision. I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light, and heard a voice; but still there were but few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; and he was ridiculed and reviled. But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew, and would know to his latest breath, that he had both seen a light and heard a voice speaking unto him, and all the world could not make him think or believe otherwise.“So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; … and I could not deny it.” These great virtues, you young Aaronic Priesthood brothers, are worth following if we would be successful as the great men who have preceded us. I bear my testimony to you that if we will do what these boys did, we will be great men. And I bear that testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.