Beloved brothers and sisters, wasn’t it a happy moment when we were permitted to be here today to hear that beautiful testimony of Brother LeGrand Richards? and the four new members of the First Quorum of the Seventy who poured out their hearts in those moments they had? and to hear all the other brethren who have given of their rich lives?I should like first to pay special tribute to the divinely inspired Primary organization of the Church. It is just a hundred years ago that Bishop Hess, with the approval of the First Presidency, called Aurelia Spencer Rogers to organize the first Primary in Farmington, Utah. From that humble beginning has grown a worldwide organization that has touched the lives of millions of people. I am confident there is not one within the sound of my voice who has not had his or her life influenced for good by the teachings of the devoted officers and teachers of this Primary organization. This past month I have received hundreds and hundreds of birthday cards. Many of them have been handmade by the Primary children of the Church. It is the humble Primary leaders who through their teaching and personal example instill in the hearts and minds of these wonderful little children, in their sensitive and formative years, love for the Savior, the Church, and for its leaders.Primary helps little boys and girls prepare for their future great responsibilities as mothers and fathers and citizens of Zion. All that is taught in Primary is virtuous, lovely, and of good report, and praiseworthy. May the Lord continue to bless and prosper the Primary organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, together with all the other organizations who are doing comparable work.I remember coming to this tabernacle as a boy from Arizona, with my father, to attend general conference. I was thrilled to hear all the Brethren speak. I have heard President Joseph F. Smith and all who have followed him up to now. I was thrilled at their utterances and took their warnings seriously, even as a young man. These men are among the prophets of God, just as were the prophets of the Book of Mormon and of the Bible. I do not remember ever feeling that these men pulled any punches or that their counsel went unheeded.Various excuses have been used over the centuries to dismiss these divine messengers. There has been denial because the prophet came from an obscure place. “Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?”  Jesus was also met with the question, “Is not this the carpenter’s son?”  By one means or another, the swiftest method of rejection of the holy prophets has been to find a pretext, however false or absurd, to dismiss the man so that his message could also be dismissed. Prophets who were not glib, but slow of speech, were esteemed as naught. Instead of responding to Paul’s message, some saw his bodily presence as weak and regarded his speech as contemptible. Perhaps they judged Paul by the timbre of his voice or by his style of speech, not the truths uttered by him.We wonder how often hearers first rejected the prophets because they despised them, and finally despised the prophets even more because they had rejected them. Even so, why else is the record of rejection so complete? The cares of the world are so many and so entangling, even very good people are diverted from following the truth because they care too much for the things of the world, such as the young man who had kept all the commandments from his youth up. He could not do the one last thing that Jesus asked: “Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor.”  We read that he went away sorrowful for he had great possessions.Sometimes people let their hearts get so set upon things and the honors of this world that they cannot learn the lessons they most need to learn. Simple truths are often rejected in favor of the much less demanding philosophies of men, and this is another cause for the rejection of the prophets.But while there are various excuses for rejection, there’s a certain cause for this sad record. It must not be passed over. The cares of the world, the honors of the world, and looking beyond the mark are all determined by a persuasive few who presume to speak for all. Paul had difficulty because there were no leaders of thought among the Jews: Jesus was seen as a stumbling block, and among the Greeks, Christianity was seen as foolishness.The holy prophets have not only refused to follow erroneous human trends, but have pointed out these errors. No wonder the response to the prophets has not always been one of indifference. So often the prophets have been rejected because they first rejected the wrong ways of their own society.These excuses for rejection of the prophets are poor excuses. The trouble with using obscurity as a test of validity is that God has so often chosen to bring forth his work out of obscurity. He has even said it would be so. (See  Christianity did not go from Rome to Galilee; it was the other way around. In our day the routing is from Palmyra to Paris, not the reverse. Just because something is in our midst does not mean that we have been in the midst of it. We can daily drive by a museum or an art gallery but know nothing of what is inside.The trouble with rejection because of personal familiarity with the prophets is that the prophets are always somebody’s son or somebody’s neighbor. They are chosen from among the people, not transported from another planet, dramatic as that would be!David was the youngest son of eight. His eldest brother was peeved at the presumptuousness of David for even being at the front where Goliath taunted the armies of Israel. Those who were so busy being indignant with David missed the purity in David’s indignation at Goliath, for the giant was defying the armies of the living God. (See David was a local boy and was ignored until he could no longer be ignored. The trouble with rejecting the prophets because they lack prestige is that Paul, who knew something of rejection, forewarned us when he said, speaking of the work of God, “For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called.” In multiple scriptures the Lord has indicated that he will perform his work through those whom the world regards as weak and despised. Of course, rejection of the holy prophets comes because the hearts of people are hardened, as people are shaped by their society. Yet even when the hardening is swift, it can also be subtle. Who, for instance, a scant twenty years ago would have foreseen the massive use of abortion in society today, like all the diseased doctrines of the devil. The practice is pleasing unto the carnal mind.Prophets have a way of jarring the carnal mind. Too often the holy prophets are wrongly perceived as harsh and as anxious to make a record in order to say, “I told you so.” Those prophets I have known are the most loving of men. It is because of their love and integrity that they cannot modify the Lord’s message merely to make people feel comfortable. They are too kind to be so cruel. I am so grateful that prophets do not crave popularity.If we need a reminder of harsh realities and the dangers of duty which prophets face, Jonah gives us a glimpse in relation to his call to the exceeding great city of Nineveh, which took three days just to walk through, its size was so intimidating. (See  One cannot read about the prophet Ether, warning the city by day and hiding by night in a cave, without marveling at his capacity to go each day once again into that hostile city. (See  We read of Enoch who was called when but a lad. He describes himself as a lad whom the people despised and who was slow of speech; yet he did his duty in love and compassion with stunning success. (See  I marvel at the empathy of these men in all ages, because even prophets have no immunity from thorns in the flesh. They learn to cast all their cares upon the Lord.The testimonies of the holy prophets of God have been written in the scriptures but also have often been written in red because these individuals are the Lord’s prophets. They help us to see the end from the beginning. The prophets have always been free from the evil of their times, free to be divine auditors who will still call fraud, fraud; embezzlement, embezzlement; and adultery, adultery.Now as we conclude this general conference, let us all give heed to what was said to us. Let us assume the counsel given applies to  to me. Let us harken to those we sustain as prophets and seers, as well as the other brethren as if our eternal life depended upon it, because it does!Now may I make a few further comments to let you know some of my concerns for us as a people who live in such challenging times. May I stress again the value of reading the addresses given at our general conferences in the  magazine.Please follow the counsel you have been given in the past and maintain your personal journals. Those who keep a book of remembrance are more likely to keep the Lord in remembrance in their daily lives. Journals are a way of counting our blessings and of leaving an inventory of these blessings for our posterity.The spring of the year reminds us, too, of the need to garden so that we can produce some of our own food as well as flowers to beautify our yards and our neighborhoods. Even if the tomato you eat is a $2.00 tomato, it will bring satisfaction anyway and remind us all of the law of the harvest, which is relentless in life. We do reap what we sow. Even if the plot of soil you cultivate, plant, and harvest is a small one, it brings human nature closer to nature as was the case in the beginning with our first parents.How can one see the slackening of traditional moral standards and not notice the decline in decency? As a boy I saw how all, young and old, worked and worked hard. We knew that we were taming the Arizona desert. But had I been wiser then, I would have realized that we were taming ourselves, too. Honest toil in subduing sagebrush, taming deserts, channeling rivers, helps to take the wildness out of man’s environment but also out of him. The disdain for work among some today may merely signal the return of harshness and wildness—perhaps not to our landscape but to some people. The dignity and self-esteem that honest work produces are essential to happiness. It is so easy for leisure to turn into laziness.How can one witness so many of those who ought to be good examples becoming bad examples and not cry out? Those who seem to flout the institution of marriage, and who regard chastity before marriage with fidelity after as old-fashioned, seem determined to establish a new fashion on their own and impose it upon others. Can they not see the gross selfishness that will lead finally to deep loneliness? Can they not see that, pushed by pleasure, they will become more and more distant from joy? Can they not see that their kind of fulfillment will produce a hollowness and an emptiness from which no fleeting pleasure can finally rescue them? The law of the harvest has not been repealed.Once the carnal in man is no longer checked by the restraints of family life and by real religion, there comes an avalanche of appetites which gathers momentum that is truly frightening. As one jars loose and begins to roll down hill, still another breaks loose, whether it is an increase in homosexuality, corruption, drugs, or abortion. Each began as an appetite that needed to be checked but which went unchecked. Thus misery achieves a ghastly monument.Decadence is very demanding and dogmatic, and it is no friend of liberty. Decadence which grew in the soil of tolerance and permissiveness soon seeks to drive out all of these. Then, finally, it reaches a point when, as one prophet declared, “There was no remedy.” In such moments the prophets of God speak out even more forcibly, doing as Alma did when he began bearing down in pure testimony against the evils of his time. (See  Nothing less will do under those conditions.We read of sections of this land where abortions outnumber live births, of how illegitimate births outnumber legitimate, and we wonder how long the judgments of God can be stayed. We read of those who have yielded to the fashion of the time and lived together without being legally married and wonder why such people do not realize that there can be no finding of their identity nor any real sense of belonging while they trample underfoot the commandments of God. We read of the increased portion of our children who are being reared by a single parent and wonder again about what will come when the law of the harvest operates. What is wrong is wrong, and trends do not make something right which is at variance with the laws of God.We note the increasing coarseness of language and understand how Lot must have felt when he was, according to Peter, “vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked.”  We wonder why those of coarse and profane conversation, even if they refuse obedience to God’s will, are so stunted mentally that they let their capacity to communicate grow more and more narrow. Language is like music; we rejoice in beauty, range, and quality in both, and we are demeaned by the repetition of a few sour notes.Far from freeing those involved, sin is an admission of surrender to the herd. It is a capitulation to the carnal in man and a rejection of joy and beauty in this life and in the world to come. Because sin is such sadness, the righteous do not stress an attitude of “I told you so”—because the righteous, in their love, truly wish they had been more effective in communication and in testifying so that there could be less misery and more happiness in the world. No wonder we who bear the plan of salvation feel a special urgency in sharing the gospel, because we love our own neighbor. May God help us in the opportunities which are ours to live righteously as a way of witnessing to the world, to speak out humbly but forthrightly, to lead out effectively and thoughtfully, ever using the gospel of Jesus Christ as our constant guide.Before closing I should like to just add—the four testimonies of these young, new leaders of the Church were very, very inspiring. When I heard each one of them say, “I have put everything I own or ever have owned upon the altar; it’s there for the Lord or his servants to identify and to call upon,” that pleased me because we know there is still faith in the Church, in Zion, among the youth, and among the young people who are growing up in this church. I would not wish to talk longer but just say, the Lord bless you, my brethren and sisters, as you return to your homes. Peace be with you. May you find every home to which you return a real Latter-day Saint home with all the gospel in it. I bear testimony to the divinity also of this great work which is the greatest thing in the world, as was said by one of the Brethren. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I would like to extend, with all of you, my love and welcome to these new General Authorities, and my greatest desire and wish for them is that they will get as much joy and happiness out of their service as I have had in the forty years since I was sustained as one of the General Authorities of the Church.I thought today I would like to refer to the fact that a week ago the entire Christian world celebrated one of the greatest, if not the greatest, events that has transpired in this world since the foundations thereof were laid, and that is the resurrection of Jesus the Christ, the Son of the living God. No wonder that after the apostles had seen him crucified and laid away in the tomb and the women brought the report that he had arisen from the dead, the apostles felt as if it were an idle tale. As Jesus walked along the road with two of his disciples on the way to Emmaus following his resurrection (and we are told that “their eyes were holden” that they didn’t recognize him  he heard what they had to say about him and his life and crucifixion. He realized that they didn’t understand all that the prophets had said concerning him, and so he said: “O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken.”  Then commencing with Moses and the prophets he showed them how in all things the prophets had testified of him, and that they did even to the minutest details, even to the casting of lots for his clothing at the time of his crucifixion.And Peter said:“We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:“Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.“For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.” Well, if prophecy is the most sure way of knowing what is to happen—and Isaiah said that the Lord had declared the end from the beginning (see it’s all there when we understand it. And so I think that if Jesus pronounced such judgment upon those who failed to understand the scriptures relating to his first coming, how would he feel toward us and the world if we fail to recognize the value of the words of the holy prophets relating to his second coming? And so I thought I would like to just mention one or two of the things that the prophets have foretold.First, I think of the words of Peter following the day of Pentecost as he talked to those who had put to death the Christ. He said:“Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord;“And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you:“Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.” This is the only church, I am sure, that believes in such a restitution of all the things that the holy prophets have spoken. Other churches believe in a reformation, but that is only man’s wisdom. Restitution comes from God the Eternal Father. And so we can’t look forward to the second coming of the Savior without there being a restitution of all things, and that’s the message of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.I would like to refer now to the prophecies of just one of the holy prophets—there isn’t time to discuss more than that—and I choose for the text of my talk today the signs that are to precede his second coming according to the words of Malachi the prophet, the last prophet recorded in the Old Testament.The Lord, speaking through Malachi, said that he would send his messenger to prepare the way for his coming, and he would come swiftly to his temple. But who could abide the day of his coming, because he would be as refiner’s fire and fullers’ soap? (See  Now obviously that had no reference to his first coming. But we are told that when he comes in power and great glory, with all the holy angels, the wicked shall cry out to the rocks: “Fall on us, and hide us [from his presence].” And you will remember when Jesus told his disciples that the temple should be broken down and that there should not be one stone left upon another. They inquired: “Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming [that would be his second coming], and of the end of the world?”  Jesus told them of the wars, and rumors of wars, and pestilence, and earthquakes, and famines, and that nation should rise against nation, “and this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.” Then he told them that as the days of Noah were, so should be the days of the coming of the Son of Man. They should be eating and drinking and making merry and would say that the Lord delayeth his coming, and then he would come as a thief in the night. And he said there would be two men upon the land; one would be taken and the other would be left. Two women would be grinding at the mill; one would be taken and the other would be left. (See  All of that was what the Savior said to identify the signs that would precede his second coming.Malachi saw the messenger that was to be sent—and incidentally, when the Lord sends a messenger, that messenger can be none other than a prophet. Jesus bore witness of John the Baptist, who was sent as a messenger to prepare the way for his coming in the meridian of time. He said that there was no prophet in Israel greater than John the Baptist. (See  The prophet Amos said: “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.”  How, then, could all things be restored, as Peter said, from all the holy prophets since the world began, unless there was a prophet to receive such restitution? And that prophet was none other than Joseph Smith, who, under the direction, divine guidance, and authority of the Father and the Son, organized this great church—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.The second thing that Malachi said relating to the preparation for the coming of the Savior in the latter days was that the whole house of Israel had departed from Him, and they wanted to know how. He indicated that it was in the paying of their tithes and offerings. He said: “Ye have robbed me, even this whole nation.” Then he said: “Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, … if I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.” (See  What an invitation! The Lord extended to Israel in the latter days, as preparation for his coming, an invitation to return to him in the payment of their tithes and their offerings! Then he went a little further and said that he would rebuke the devourer for their sakes, that their crops should not fall before their time, and that all men should call them blessed. (See We are a blessed people. The Lord has blessed us. After our pioneers were driven a thousand miles from civilization and transportation, they landed here in this wilderness. Isaiah saw that the Lord would cause the wilderness to blossom as the rose. (See  He saw the rivers flow in the desert and flow down from the high places to make this land productive. (See  And why? So that the Saints, when they were gathered here, could fulfill his promises. For if this gospel that Jesus referred to was to be preached in all the world, it had to be done by his children. And hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saint missionaries since that time have been all over the world—some 25,000 of them at the present time—to declare the restoration of the gospel as one of the steps in the preparation for the return of the Savior, for he so indicated that it must be preached in all the world.And then there were so many other things that needed to be done that required money in order to build the kingdom of God in the earth, like the building of our places of worship, these beautiful buildings that you see here in this city, this great metropolis. All of this because the Lord has truly blessed his people. And then the building of holy temples, including those that are now on the drawing boards, which will make, I think, a total of twenty. We are the only temple-building people in this whole world—and if the world were to build them, they wouldn’t know what to do with them!That brings us to one more thing that Malachi saw. He said:“I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord:“And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.” Just think of all that Malachi saw when he saw the coming of Elijah. What a consequence if it were not for his coming, for the Lord said that the whole earth would be utterly wasted. (See  Nobody in this world, I am sure, outside of this church, could tell you what the message of Elijah was. We wouldn’t know either, except that Elijah came and appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery on the third day of April 1836 in the Kirtland Temple. As a result of that, and of the keys of the dispensation that Elijah brought, we have built all these holy temples. We understand the value of genealogical research, so we have built here in this city a genealogical library and these great vaults out in the mountains, a miracle in and of themselves. There is nothing else like them in the entire world. And all of that has been done to fulfill the mission of Elijah, lest the Lord come and smite the whole earth with a curse.We are advised to study the scriptures, the older scriptures and the modern scriptures, to see what the prophets have said. Remember the words of Peter, that we have a more sure word of prophecy and that we do well to take heed. I want to bear you my testimony here that this is the work of God the Eternal Father.As I stand here as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I bear you my witness that the prophecies of Malachi that I have referred to have been fulfilled in the restoration of the gospel at the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the holy prophets who have succeeded him at the head of this church, even to our present prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball, whom I honor with all my heart, as I do all my brethren of the General Authorities. So I leave with you that witness, and pray God to give us the strength and the faith to do our part in the preparation of his kingdom. In the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, amen.