My heart is filled to overflowing. My spirit is subdued. My soul is filled with gratitude. Years ago when I was sustained as a young bishop, an impression came strongly to me that the opportunity to serve came from nothing that I had done, but that I was going to ride on a ticket that someone else had paid for. I feel that strongly today. There are many who have gone before me who have given their lives that this kingdom might be established.I am grateful for my angel mother. I am grateful for my great father and am sorry that he isn’t able to understand today this opportunity that has come to me. I am also grateful for a choice wife. When I am in her presence, I always want to be better. I’m grateful to seven lovely children, and to five lovely sons and daughters who are in-laws, and to many grandchildren. I am so grateful that they have always sustained me. Now, I’d just like to say that I’m grateful to a multitude of people—associates, the leaders of the Church (whom I’ve watched and admired and listened to for many years), also to wonderful members of the Church.I am also grateful to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With every fiber of my being, I know that God lives. I know that he speaks. I know that he hears. I know that he loves us.I am grateful for the opportunity I have had to serve in the mission field. If there were no other evidence that the church of Jesus Christ is true, what happens in the lives of young men and in the lives of wonderful new members of the Church is witness enough for me to know that this is true.I have committed myself—recommitted myself—to the Lord, to give everything that I have. And here before you, I commit myself to do everything that I’m asked to do by these great men whom I love. Our lives have been blessed by President Kimball for thirty years. He has been a giant in our lives, and he loves us. Now I can feel your love. I can feel the love of the people, and I am so grateful for that love. As missionaries we have known what it means to have three-and-a-half million people praying for us, and I am so grateful for that.Now I leave you my witness that God lives and commit to you that I will do everything that I can as long as I have breath and beyond that. In the name of Jesus Christ, the Lord, amen.When I was three months old, the Salt Lake Stake held a great pageant here in this tabernacle. My angelic mother played the part of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and I had the honor of playing the role of the Christ child. I know I must have been much more comfortable at that time than I am now, probably because I didn’t have to speak. But from that day to this, my beloved brothers and sisters, I have felt the Lord’s guiding hand leading me and protecting me, sometimes protecting me from myself.I’ve enjoyed such rich experiences as I’ve grown up and matured. As each one has come along, I’ve questioned, “Why me? Why has the Lord given me such rich opportunities to grow and to develop? Why has he provided such opportunities to give service?” I thank him from the bottom of my heart for the richness of my life, the happiness which I’ve enjoyed.All of my life it seems that I’ve been surrounded by people who have built me and caused me to be better than myself, again, who sometimes have protected me from myself: my noble parents, who from the cradle have taught me the priorities that I ought to have in my life as they have sought the Lord first and foremost in their lives; a lovely, faithful wife who has sustained me in every calling I’ve received; seven beautiful daughters who think I ought to be the president of the Church; their wonderful husbands who are faithful and true to the covenants they have made in the house of the Lord; and delightful little grandchildren who are the joy of my life.President Benson, in our seminar last Friday, mentioned the fact that the highest honor we could have is to be members of God’s church, which I am; to know that Christ is our Savior, our personal Savior, which I testify to you I know; to hold his holy priesthood, which I do; and to be a part of an eternal family unit, which I am. I’m honored above all men. I’m blessed above all men. And I’m so grateful for this holy calling which has come to me.I want to say to each one of you, my beloved brothers and sisters, that every blessing I have in my life, everything I hold dear and precious in my heart, I can trace to my membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to my love of the Lord, to the testimony I have of his divine gospel, and to the responses I’ve made to the opportunities of service.I rejoice now for the opportunity of concentrating my entire life to his service, and without reservation I lay my life and everything I have at his feet. President Kimball and my beloved brethren, my dear wife and I are prepared to go wherever you want to send us and do whatever you ask of us, and pray only that we might be instruments in the hands of the Lord to assist you dear brethren in your awesome assignment to build the kingdom of God; to sanctify his people; and to prepare the way when Christ will come in all of his glory and will take the reins of government, and Satan will be bound, and every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that he is the Savior of the world, and he will reign forever and ever, which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.