There are thousands of young men in many places in the world who have joined with us tonight in this priesthood meeting being conducted in the Mormon Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. It is to these young men that I would like to speak, but your fathers and grandfathers may listen also if they like.Some years ago I read an article in the Era of Youth section of our  magazine entitled “Bind on Thy Sandals.” It told of the less-than-spectacular career of a quarterback on the football team of a small, rural high school. This young man managed to make the team, but it was clear he was not going to be all-state or all-American. Indeed, it didn’t look like he was going to be all-anything, except perhaps all battered and bruised. He was the fourth of the four quarterbacks.By season’s end he had never been called into a game and had given up hope. During the final game of the year he pulled off his shoes, wrapped himself in a blanket, and settled down on the bench to watch his buddies play.Midway through the game he heard the coach shout his name. He was startled and wondered if he had been mistaken. Then it came again, right from the coach’s lips, “Hey, you! Get in there and move the ball!”What should he do? His first impulse was to lapse into a coma. His second was to pretend he didn’t hear. His third was to say, “Wait, coach. Wait while I put on my shoes.” He did the only manly thing. Strapping on his helmet as he ran, he made straight for the huddle; his white-stockinged feet were conspicuous to the players on both teams, as well as to the spectators and the coach, who also must have been ready to lapse into a coma.He called the play, but the shock of his first game was obviously a little disconcerting. By the time he took the snap from center he had forgotten the play he had called. His teammates moved to the right, but he gamely went left. There, alone against the world, he met the opposition head-on and was swallowed up in the snarl of the onrushing linemen.He said later, “No one expected me to make a touchdown. Even running the wrong way was understandable. But there was no excuse for a quarterback without shoes.” (See  Sept. 1969, p. 44.)I want to invite the young men in this audience tonight to keep their gospel shoes on, to believe in the opportunities that lie ahead. I am reminded of what Abraham Lincoln said when he sat on the sidelines for a long time, losing election after election and struggling to make a professional contribution. He said simply, “I will prepare, and perhaps my chance will come.” He lived long enough to learn what everyone learns—that chance always favors the prepared life.As surely as I know anything, I know you young men are needed and will be called on to help the kingdom in the years ahead. Indeed, we call upon you now. We need your company and your friendship and your service and your standards. Some of your assignments may seem small to you, but they are very important and they prepare you for greater service to come.Oliver Cowdery was one who, for just a moment, slipped his shoes off while the game was still going, and it led to one of the great disappointments in Church history. He had been serving as scribe for the Prophet Joseph Smith as the Book of Mormon was being translated, and the Lord told him that he, too, would be granted the gift of translation. (See Oliver was not as ready as he might have been—or as he once had been. His belief in himself and in this great latter-day work had faltered just a bit, and he cried out, “Wait while I get ready.” But he learned that eternal work can seldom wait for long. The Lord eventually replied to him, “Because … you did not continue as you commenced, … I have taken away this privilege. … You feared, and the time is past, and it is not expedient now.”  The opportunity of a lifetime had not been seized, and it was gone forever.If President Kimball will pardon a personal reference, I would like to refer to his readiness and preparation. At President Harold B. Lee’s funeral he said with love and emotion: “President Lee has gone. I never thought it could happen. I sincerely wanted it never to happen. I doubt if anyone in the Church has prayed harder and more consistently for a long life and the general welfare for President Lee than my Camilla and myself. I have not been ambitious. I am four years older than Brother Lee (to the exact day, March 28). I have expected that I would go long before he would go. My heart cries out to him and for him. How we loved him!” ( Feb. 1974, p. 86.)Certainly President Kimball was not ambitious to be president of the Church, but when the call came, unexpected as it may have been, he was ready. In all the years we have been privileged to know him, President Kimball has always been ready. He has never slipped off his shoes while the game was still on—not ever. He has never had to say, “Wait while I prepare. Wait while I get ready.” Though he may never have dreamed it would someday be his, all of his life he has been getting ready for the assignment he now has.Let me cite just one example of that preparation which started many years ago, when President Kimball was the age of many of you sitting within the sound of my voice tonight. When he was fourteen years old, a Church leader visited a conference of the stake over which his father presided and told the congregation that they should read the scriptures.President Kimball, in recalling that experience, said: “I recognized that I had never read the Bible, [so] that very night at the conclusion of that very sermon I walked to my home a block away and climbed up in my little attic room in the top of the house and lighted a little coal-oil lamp that was on the little table, and I read the first chapters of Genesis. A year later I closed the Bible, having read every chapter in that big and glorious book. … It was formidable, but I knew if others did it that I could do it.“I found,” said President Kimball, “that there were certain parts that were hard for a 14-year-old boy to understand. There were some pages that were not especially interesting to me, but when I had read the 66 books and the 1,189 chapters and 1,519 pages, I had a glowing satisfaction that I had made a goal and that I had achieved it.“Now I am not telling you this story to boast,” President Kimball concludes, “I am merely using this as an example to say that if I could do it by coal-oil light, you can do it by electric light. I have always been glad I read the Bible from cover to cover.” ( May 1974, p. 88.) In this and a thousand other ways, young Spencer Woolley Kimball silently and efficiently prepared, never dreaming of what lay ahead.May I say once more to the youth of the Church—prepare, believe, be ready, have faith. Do not say or do or be that which would limit your service or render you ineffective in the kingdom of God. Be ready when your call comes, for surely it will come. Keep your gospel shoes on, or as Paul wrote to the Ephesians, “Stand therefore, having … your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace.”  The Lord would say to you tonight what the angel said long ago to Simon Peter: “Arise. … Bind on thy sandals. … Follow me.” What a glorious thing it is to have the privilege of bearing the priesthood. God does live and Jesus Christ is his Son—our Lord and Savior. I bear witness that there is a prophet of God on the earth, and tonight we have the privilege of sitting at his feet in this great gathering. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.While on a recent visit to continental Europe and Scandinavia, I had occasion to hold several press conferences with foreign news reporters. These reporters were somewhat informed and appeared amazed about the Church’s growth and progress as measured by the increase of converts. I said to them, “We’re grateful for this rapid growth in numbers. But we are even more grateful for the growth in faith and spirituality.” I then quoted some statistics in support of that statement. When I first came into the Council of the Twelve in 1943, I said, the average attendance at sacrament meeting—our Sunday preaching service—was about 20 percent. Today worldwide attendance is about 41 percent. Youth attendance is 46 percent, and attendance in the Primary—our young children—is 67 percent. The growth, progress, and increased spirituality of the members of the Church is not just accidental, I said to them. It is the result of a rich program based on eternal truth.Jesus told the original Twelve that this would be one of the signs of the times. He said:“This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.” Today The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is extending the heralded message of the restoration of the gospel to every nation which permits us entrance through its borders. This is a fulfillment of the vision and revelation received by Daniel, the prophet, “Who foresaw and foretold the establishment of the kingdom of God in the latter days, never again to be destroyed nor given to other people.”  He likened the beginning of this kingdom to a small stone cut out of a mountain without human hands but which rolled forward to become a great mountain until it filled the entire earth. (See This interpretation was validated by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith by modern revelation in these words:“The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” This is the heaven-decreed destiny of this church and kingdom.Not all men will perceive the hand of God in this latter-day work. Jesus told Nicodemus, “Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”  Without the guidance and inspiration of the Holy Ghost, there will be some who will see nothing more to the progress of the Church than a social curiosity.We may expect to see the righteousness of the Saints and the progress of the kingdom of God continue unabated, but it will not be without opposition. The Council of the Twelve proclaimed in 1845: “As this work progresses in its onward course, and becomes more and more an object of political and religious interest … no king, ruler, or subject, no community or individual, will stand  All will … be influenced by one spirit or the other; and will take sides either for or against the kingdom of God.” (James R. Clark, comp.,  5 vols., Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1965–70, 1:257.)Yes, as the Lord declared, “Zion  increase in beauty, and in holiness; her borders  be enlarged; her stakes  be strengthened.”  italics added.) As righteousness will increase, so will evil. We see evidences of this all about us. It sometimes causes members of the Church to despair. We may be assured, however, that the Lord will take care of this in His own time and in His own way. Hear His decree:“I, the Lord, am angry with the wicked. …“I have sworn in my wrath, and decreed wars upon the face of the earth, and the wicked shall slay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man;“ nevertheless, I, the Lord, am with them, and will come down in heaven from the presence of my Father and consume the wicked with unquenchable fire.”  italics added.)“We may not be too far from the day prophesied by Heber C. Kimball, grandfather of President Spencer W. Kimball and member of the First Presidency. He said:“The Saints will be put to tests that will try the integrity of the best of them. The pressure will become so great that the more righteous among them will cry unto the Lord day and night until deliverance comes.” (“Prophecy of Heber C. Kimball,”  Church Section, May 23, 1931, p. 3.)But remember the Lord has said in modern revelation, “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear.”  Are we prepared? God help us to be so for the tests of the days ahead.With these prophetic warnings and assurances before us and evidences of evil increasing, Church members are asking: “Why is not the Church doing more to expose the evils of our society?” “Is there a great conspiracy?” “What can I do to fight false philosophies which have crept into our school systems and society in general?” “With the precarious political and economic conditions, should I prepare my sons and daughters for college and future careers?” “Is the Church the only answer to the problems about us, or are there other things we should be doing?”It is easy to despair when we see about us the moorings of society slipping. We must remember, however, that the Lord sent His Saints into the world “to be a light unto the world, and to be the saviors of men.”  This is a time when “Zion must arise and put on her beautiful garments.”  The contrast between the Church and the world will be increasingly marked in the future, which contrast, we hope, will cause the Church to be more attractive to those in the world who desire to live according to God’s plan for us, His children.The Church will always stand for that which is honest, virtuous, true and praiseworthy. Such a pronounced stand  righteousness constitutes a repudiation  every evil and all false philosophies. The First Presidency and the Twelve are not oblivious to false philosophies and evils and will continue to warn the world and the Saints as the Lord directs.Yes, there is a conspiracy of evil. The source of it all is Satan and his hosts. He has a great power over men to “lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken” to the voice of the Lord.  His evil influence may be manifest through governments; through false educational, political, economic, religious, and social philosophies; through secret societies and organizations; and through myriads of other forms. His power and influence are so great that, if possible, he would deceive the very elect. As the second coming of the Lord approaches, Satan’s work will intensify through numerous insidious deceptions.Parents also need to take a stand for all that is honest, virtuous, and praiseworthy. It is the responsibility of heads of families to support wholesome influences for their children in government, schools, in the home, in the neighborhoods, in stores, in local theaters. Parents have responsibility to see that freedom is preserved for their children, and that the present generation does not burden future generations with debt and wasteful extravagance. The gospel, the kingdom of God, can prosper only in an atmosphere of freedom. Every adult has responsibility in selecting government leadership, for as the Lord has said, “I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; … Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn. Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently.” There is an urgent need for the development of a more firm and virtuous influence in the public affairs of each community, each state or province, and nations as a whole. A force for positive good is needed in every facet of public life.Too many heads of families are not involving themselves in the affairs of their communities on the ground that they have not received specific instructions from Church leaders. The Lord, however, has declared:“It is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant. …“Men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness;“For the power is in them. … And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward.” Joseph Smith, the prophet of this dispensation, declared: “It is our duty to concentrate all our influence to make popular that which is sound and good and unpopular that which is unsound.” ( 5:286.)We must ask ourselves: Are we doing all we can to actively participate in the preservation of our freedom in building an influence for positive good and resisting the flood of evil which threatens to inundate the whole human family?A major responsibility of family heads is to help prepare youth for the future. Gospel principles may be instilled through effective family home evenings where youth will be fortified so that they have no need to fear for their future. Such teaching must be done in faith, testimony, and optimism.The Church’s mission is to declare the gospel of the kingdom to all the world, to redeem our kindred dead, and to perfect the Saints of the Church—a positive approach. Never in the history of the Church has there been such an expenditure of time, planning, and resources to accomplish this mission. In the final analysis, this effort is the  solution to the problems of the world.When Jesus stood before Pilate, the Roman governor asked him whether or not He was a king. It was a political question. The Savior replied: “My kingdom is not of this world.”  His answer is apropos today: The work of His kingdom is preeminently spiritual. The economic, political, and social problems facing this nation, as well as other nations, will be solved only with the help of God.The days ahead will be sobering and will test the faith of the Saints. But we may obtain strength from the Lord’s assurances found in modern revelation. I quote:“He will preserve the righteous by his power. … Wherefore, the righteous need not fear; … they shall be saved, even if it so be … by fire.” “I will fight your battles.”  “No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; … This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord.” “Great tribulations shall be among the children of men, ”  italics added.)The kingdom of God will not fail; it shall not be destroyed; it will not be left to other people; it will stand forever until “the kingdoms of this world [will] become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ.” Hear the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph Smith:“No unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing; persecutions may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame, but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.” ( 4:540.)Christian denominations the world over have prayed for centuries for the kingdom of God to come. We earnestly and publicly declare: that day is now here!To Latter-day Saints the world over, we say: Let not your hearts be troubled. Keep the commandments of God. Follow the counsel of his living prophet, taking care not to exceed the counsel with your own private views. Teach your children to walk uprightly before the Lord. Pray in your homes morning and evening. Pray for civil magistrates and leaders even when you do not agree with them. Pray for the leaders of the Church. Pray, as you have been counseled, that the doors of nations of the world will be opened to the preaching of the gospel. Obey the laws of your country; rebel not against civil authority. Do your duty as citizens. “Do not yield to the bad, but always oppose it with good.” (Virgil.)To all who have allegiance to the kingdom of God, we say: “Seek ye … first the kingdom of God.”  “Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations; And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth.” Yes, “Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth.“Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come.” I bear humble witness that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the restored kingdom of God on earth today. Its message and blessings are for all of our Father’s children. It is the truth, to which I bear grateful testimony in the sacred name of Jesus Christ. Amen.