This conference, my brethren and sisters, is an important anniversary for me. It was an even twenty years ago that I first spoke from this pulpit as a General Authority of the Church. I was filled with fear and feelings of inadequacy that Sunday morning of 1958. Now, twenty years and forty conferences later, I still have some of those same feelings. And so I pray for the direction of the Holy Spirit that anxiety may be replaced by inspiration.Without wishing to look back, but rather to note the progress of the Church, I have checked a few figures given at that 1958 conference. The Church membership reported on that occasion stood at just over a million and a half. Yesterday the comparable figure given was almost four million, or a gain of roughly 166 percent in only two decades. In 1958 there were 273 stakes, with approximately 2,500 wards and branches. The figure given us yesterday was 885 stakes at the close of the year, and as of last Thursday this had reached 937 either organized or approved for organization. Today there are approximately 7,500 wards and independent branches, three times the number there were twenty years ago.These few figures are sufficient to illustrate the remarkable phenomenon that I personally have witnessed in the space of twenty short years. No boast is intended in this. Rather, I am grateful, for behind these figures I have seen men, women, and children in many lands whose lives have been enriched, in whose homes there is more of peace and love, and whose understanding of their place in the eternal plan of God has increased through membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.This remarkable growth has come about because there has been the courage to teach and the faith to listen on the part of tens of thousands who by the power of the Holy Spirit have received testimony of the living Christ, and of the restoration to earth of his true gospel.Last Sunday the Christian world celebrated Easter in remembrance of the resurrection, when the risen Lord appeared first to Mary Magdalene, and later that day to the ten apostles, Thomas being absent.“The other disciples therefore said unto him, we have seen the Lord.” But Thomas, like so many then and now, said, “Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.” Have you not heard others speak as Thomas spoke? “Give us,” they say, “the empirical evidence. Prove before our very eyes, and our ears, and our hands, else we will not believe.” This is the language of the time in which we live. Thomas the Doubter has become the example of men in all ages who refuse to accept other than that which they can physically prove and explain—as if they could prove love, or faith, or even such physical phenomena as electricity.But to continue with the narrative, eight days later the apostles were together again, this time Thomas with them. “Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.”Singling out Thomas, he said: “Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and ”Thomas, astonished and shaken, answered and said unto him, “My Lord and my God.“Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.”  italics added.)To all within the sound of my voice who may have doubts, I repeat the words given Thomas as he felt the wounded hands of the Lord: “Be not faithless, but believing.” Believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the greatest figure of time and eternity. Believe that his matchless life reached back before the world was formed. Believe that he was the Creator of the earth on which we live. Believe that he was Jehovah of the Old Testament, that he was the Messiah of the New Testament, that he died and was resurrected, that he visited these western continents and taught the people here, that he ushered in this final gospel dispensation, and that he lives, the living Son of the living God, our Savior and our Redeemer.John says of the creation that “all things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.” Can any man who has walked beneath the stars at night, can anyone who has seen the touch of spring upon the land doubt the hand of divinity in creation? So observing the beauties of the earth, one is wont to speak as did the Psalmist: “The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.” All of beauty in the earth bears the fingerprint of the Master Creator, of those hands which, after they took the form of mortality and then immortality, Thomas insisted on touching before he would believe.Be not faithless, but believe in Jehovah, he whose finger wrote upon the tablets of stone amid the thunders of Sinai—“Thou shalt have no other gods before me.”  The Decalogue, which is the basis of all good law governing human relations, is the product of his divine genius. As you look upon the vast body of legalisms designed to protect men and society, pause and know that it has its roots in those few brief and timeless declarations given by the all-wise Jehovah to Moses, the leader of Israel.Believe in him who was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who was the source of inspiration of all the ancient prophets—as they spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost. They spoke for him when they rebuked kings, when they chastised the nations, and when as seers they looked forward to the coming of a promised Messiah, declaring by the power of revelation, “Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.” “And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord.” “And the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.” Doubt not, but believe that it was he who was born to earth in a manger when there was no room in the inn. Well did an angel ask a prophet who had foreseen these things in vision: “Knowest thou the condescension of God?”  I suppose none of us can fully understand that—how the great Jehovah should come among men, his birth in a manger, among a hated people, in a vassal state. But at his birth there was an angelic chorus that sang of his glory. There were shepherds who worshiped him. There was a new star in the east. There were wise men who traveled far to bring tribute of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. One can surmise they touched those tiny hands in wonder and awe as they presented their gifts to the newborn king.Herod the Great, who knew of the prophecies, feared those hands and sought to destroy them, and in the horrible slaughter of the innocents brought blood upon his own hands and head.Believe that John the Baptist spoke by the power of revelation when he declared of Jesus, “Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.”  And that it was the voice of the Almighty that declared above the waters of Jordan, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” Believe and know that he was a man of miracles. He who had created the world and governed it as the great Jehovah understood the elements of earth and all the functions of life. Beginning at Cana, where he turned the water into wine, he went on to cause the lame to walk, the blind to see, the dead to return to life—he, the Master Physician, who healed the sick by the authority inherent in him as the Son of God.He was the comforter of the burdened of his time, and of all the generations who have come after who have truly believed in him. Said he to each of us:“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” I spoke one day to a friend escaped from his native land. With the fall of his nation, he had been arrested and interned. His wife and children had been able to get away, but for three years and more he had been a prisoner without means of communication with those he loved. The food had been wretched, the living conditions oppressive, with no prospects for improvement.“What sustained you through all those dark days?” I asked.He responded: “My faith; my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I put my burdens on him, and then they seemed so much the lighter.”On one occasion while the Lord was traveling through Samaria, he wearied and thirsted. Pausing at Jacob’s well, he rested and requested a drink from the woman who had come to draw water. In the conversation that followed he declared the saving power of his teaching, saying: “Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:“But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him [it] shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.” In that same conversation he declared his identity when the woman at the well spoke of the promised Messiah, “which is called Christ.” He, without equivocation, said, “I that speak unto thee am he.” Doubt not, but believe that he is the Master of life and death. To the sorrowing Martha he declared his eternal power, saying: “I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.” Were words so great as these ever spoken for the comfort of those who have lost loved ones? Thomas was present when those words were given and also when Lazarus afterwards was called forth from the tomb. Yet he doubted the Lord’s power to bring himself forth after the terrible death upon the cross, asserting to his fellow apostles that except he feel the wounds in the hands he would not believe. Small wonder that Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be not faithless, but believing.”We, like Thomas, are so prone to forget the evidences of his matchless life and power. Those evidences are not found alone in the Bible, the testament of the Old World. There is a testament of the New World which was brought forth by the gift and power of God to the convincing of the Jew and the gentile that Jesus is the Christ. It contains another gospel, beautiful in language and powerful in spirit.Jesus in his earthly ministry spoke of other sheep of another fold from those he was then teaching and declared that they also should hear his voice, “and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.” At some time following his resurrection a voice was heard from the heavens among a people who were gathered together in the Land Bountiful somewhere on these western continents. It was the voice of God, and it said unto them:“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.“And … they saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came down and stood in the midst of them,” declaring unto them:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.” He invited them, as he invited Thomas, to feel his hands and side, and they were astonished and cried, “Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!” They doubted not, but believed, as have millions who have read this marvelous witness of the resurrected Lord. If there be those of you out there who are listening who know not of this fifth gospel and desire it, your request will bring it, and it will come with a promise that if you will read prayerfully you shall know of the truth of this remarkable new witness for Christ.And there is yet another testifier, for as certainly as the voice of God declared the divine Sonship of Jesus at the waters of Jordan, and again on the Mount of Transfiguration, and yet again at the Land Bountiful, even so again that same introduction was made in the opening of this gospel dispensation in a glorious vision in which God the Eternal Father and His Son Jesus Christ appeared and spoke to a young man who had come seeking, and who in the years that followed spoke as a prophet of the risen Lord, even giving his life in testimony of him who had died upon the cross.With so many evidences, and with the conviction borne in our hearts by the power of the Holy Ghost, we add in words of soberness and sincerity and love our testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ; wherefore, O man, “be not faithless, but believing” in Him who is the living Son of God, our Savior and our Redeemer, I humbly pray and testify in His holy name, even the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My remarks today are directed primarily to young married couples and to those who are planning to be married, but perhaps they will apply to all of us who are married or who someday will be married. I would like to talk about the art of making your marriage successful.Our Heavenly Father loves all of us and wants us to be happy. The scriptures record, “Men are, that they might have joy.”  President Kimball has told us that the price of happiness is to keep the commandments. (See  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 126.) Nowhere else are happiness and success more important than in your marriage. is a marriage solemnized in the temple. To you who were married for time only, let me urge you to thoroughly investigate the blessings available to you by going to the temple and having your family sealed to you for time and all eternity. Participating in these sacred ordinances should be your most important objective for achieving a successful marriage. He gave us our free agency, allowing us to make our own decisions. He also furnished us with guidelines to help us live righteously.In His wisdom He gives us many problems, for He knows that by meeting them and finding solutions we will gain knowledge and skills, develop character, and learn to overcome evil, all of which will help us while we are here on earth, as well as in the life hereafter.We should, therefore, look at problems in marriage as opportunities for growth and development. As we meet the challenges successfully, we will enjoy peace, love, and tranquility in our marriage and in our home. is establish and maintain good relations with each other. If you want to be sweethearts, you must work at it. I admonish every one of you to do everything possible to make your companion happy. Be kind and considerate of each other. When problems arise, talk things over calmly and resolve differences promptly. On one occasion Elder Gordon B. Hinckley said that quiet speech in the home is the language of peace. (See  Apr. 1971, p. 82.) President McKay used to say that we should never yell at each other in the home. And then, facetiously, he would add that maybe on one occasion it would be all right and that would be if the house were on fire. (See  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1971, p. 294.)Sometimes it is difficult for us to understand why our mates don’t see things the same and arrive at the same conclusions as we do. People are different in their thinking and their understanding, and opinions often vary. Differences must be reconciled promptly if husbands and wives are to be happy and work as a team together. it is important to reach an understanding on what is expected of each of the marriage partners. Ordinarily the husband is the breadwinner, and he should be willing to work hard and to do all in his power to properly take care of the financial needs of his family. Such needs should be discussed and priorities set for the welfare of the entire family.The wife is the homemaker. It is her responsibility to see that a clean, orderly home is maintained. Some divorces have occurred where the wife becomes indifferent about her personal appearance, or becomes a careless housekeeper, or both. I cannot stress too strongly to the sisters the importance of personal cleanliness, good appearance, and maintaining a clean, orderly home.In the beginning, if the wife’s health permits, she is often temporarily employed outside the home. When this is the case, the husband should help with the housekeeping chores. If a man truly loves his wife, he will not want or allow her to work more than her health and strength permit. He will want to help her in every possible way.When I was a young man, my wife would ask me to come and help her with the dishes, with making the beds, or with other household chores. Now, at this time in our lives, I ask her to come and help me wash the dishes, make the beds, and perform other household chores. The important thing is to work together and help each other. Demonstrate consideration at all times. Brethren, open the door of the car for your wife or companion. When you enter or leave a building together, open the door and have her go in first. Help her to be seated before you are seated.Sometimes our ladies don’t allow us time to perform such courtesies. My advice to you sisters is to take the extra time. If you jump out of the car a few times without his help, he will probably expect you to come and open the door for him. Sisters would do well to remember that a husband generally treats his wife the way she expects to be treated.Money management is very important. I’d like to give you four guides that I think would be helpful in this respect.1.  Keep yourself eligible for the great blessings the Lord has promised to those who obey this commandment. He made this statement in the scriptures:“Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.”  I testify to you that this is true.2.  Save something out of every dollar you earn. I suggest your goal be no less than ten percent of your income after you have paid the Lord His share.Brigham Young once said: “If you wish to get rich, save what you get. A fool can earn money; but it takes a wise man to save and dispose of it to his own advantage.” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941, p. 292.)3.  for installment purchases. We are all being urged to “buy now pay later.” This makes it sound easy and even glamorous to surround ourselves with luxuries before they are earned. My advice to all is to  now and  later. This will not only save a high interest charge, but it will also keep couples out of financial bondage.Our late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., advised us: “Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little.” ( Apr. 1937, p. 26.)4.  To consistently spend more than you earn makes it impossible to keep solvent and difficult to control your “wants.” In establishing priorities, remember that the family always comes first and foremost in your life. Next comes Church responsibilities and then your business affairs—the way you earn your living.Remember the admonition of the Savior when He told his disciples, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” I testify that this is true and that it points the way to success in all respects. Use it wisely. Remind yourselves often that things that matter most should not be left to the mercy of things that matter the least. To live righteous lives and accomplish the purposes of our creation, we must constantly review the past, determine our present status, and set goals for the future. Without this process there is little chance of reaching one’s objectives. Those with whom you associate will contribute to your success or your failure, and their actions and ideals will have a profound influence on life and your actions, either for good or evil. Learn to walk in the company of good people; shun evil by staying out of the devil’s territory. Be honest with your spouse, with your family, with yourself, and with your neighbor. Honesty includes freedom from lying, deceiving, cheating, or stealing, as well as meeting our commitments.Honesty also includes doing a good day’s work. If we shirk our jobs, we are stealing time from our employers.The business world and other employers are seeking those who are honest and dependable. This has always been the case and will continue to be so for all time.Guard your reputation for honesty and dependability very carefully. It can be one of your most valuable possessions. Our scriptures make this very clear. In Doctrine and Covenants 68:25  we read, “Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of … hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.”Notice it didn’t say the Sunday School teacher or the Primary teacher. The sin is on the heads of the Home responsibilities and rearing children must be uppermost in the minds and actions of parents if a successful marriage is to be achieved. This famous statement made by our late President David O. McKay should always be remembered: “No other success can compensate for failure in the home.” ( Apr. 1964, p. 5.) and in all walks of life, not only to each other, but also to your children, your relatives, your friends, and your associates.The Lord commanded us to love one another when he said, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”  Quarreling, bickering, and faultfinding should be avoided at all costs. In 3 Nephi 11:29–30  the Lord made this significant statement:“He that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”And also in  we read that parents are particularly responsible for the behavior of their children:“And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness.” both night and morning. Take turns thanking your Heavenly Father for the blessings He has given you and ask for those things you need that will be for your good. Our Heavenly Father always answers our prayers. Sometimes His answers are not what we expect or ask for, but I promise you His answers are always for our good. He knows better than we how our prayers should be answered. In the scriptures we find answers to all of life’s problems. Attend your meetings. Magnify your callings in the priesthood. Wives, support your husbands in their Church assignments; and husbands, support your wives in their Church callings. Go to the temple often and carry the spirit you feel there back into your homes. Be diligent in keeping the covenants you have made or will make in the house of the Lord.At a fireside talk at Brigham Young University, President Kimball said, “Almost all marriages could be beautiful, harmonious, and happy, and eternal ones, if the two people primarily involved would determine that it should be, that it must be, that it will be.” (“Marriage is Honorable,” in  Provo: Brigham Young University Press, 1974, p. 257.)May our Heavenly Father bless you abundantly in your efforts to make your marriage successful for both time and all eternity, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.