Brothers and sisters, with you I have enjoyed this meeting very much. I don’t recall having attended a better welfare meeting. I appreciate the work the General Welfare Services Committee, the Presiding Bishopric, and the Welfare Department are doing in welfare services.I have prepared a speech too long to give in the time available. I believe, however, you can get along without it if you will do what you have been counseled to do here today. Our time here this morning has been well spent.The subject of the talk I have prepared is “The Royal Law.” Defining it, the apostle James said, “If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well.”  We must have this law in mind in all that we do in our welfare work. We must love our neighbors as ourselves. The Savior put this law second only to the love of God when He said:“Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” In the payment of our fast offerings, we must do so with the royal law in mind. You remember that Isaiah speaks of the people who came to the Lord and said:“Wherefore have we fasted, … and thou seest not?”Because, came the answer, you do not keep the fast which I commanded. True, you bow down your heads as a bulrush and spread sackcloth and ashes under your feet, but you do not deal your bread to the hungry, nor provide housing for the poor, nor do you cover the naked. When you do these things, “then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am.” (See The caring for the poor and the handicapped and those who need our help is a main purpose and an absolute requirement in fulfilling the royal law of loving our neighbors as ourselves. You will remember the great sermon of Amulek on prayer, in which he tells the people to pray and tells them how often to pray—morning, night, and noon—and tells them where to pray and how to pray and what to pray for. He goes into great detail and then he says that “after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith.” (See I believe we are coming to under stand the royal law, “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” You will remember that Jesus, just before the close of His ministry, speaking to His apostles, said:“When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:“And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:“And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.“Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:“For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in:“Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.“Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?“When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?“Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?“And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.” I know this gospel is true. I have no doubt about that at all. I never remember a time when I questioned a principle of the gospel. I know that the welfare program that was outlined in the 1930s was inspired of the Lord. He gave President Grant the inspiration and gave him help through his great counselor, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and others, to set up the program. It is our duty now to follow it and take care of His kingdom in the spirit of loving our neighbors as ourselves.If we do so, we shall be able to meet the trying days ahead, which are coming faster than we think. The peoples of the earth will be in such trouble and distress that they will be unable to solve their problems in any other way than to turn to the Lord’s program. I bear you this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My dear brothers and sisters, I have enjoyed this meeting very much. The Spirit of the Lord has been with us today. I want President Kimball to know he has strengthened my testimony and resolve to further intensify my works and my efforts in building the kingdom of God.I always like to know how many people are here and who are here. I wonder if the bishops who are here for the first time would please stand. Thank you. I wonder if the ward Relief Society presidents who are here for the first time would please stand. Thank you. And the stake Relief Society presidents that are here for the first time, please. Thank you. Now the stake presidents that are here for the first time, please. Thank you. That shows, President Kimball, there are many new people here, and emphasizes the importance of having these meetings every six months so that the people may learn of their duties.We’ve certainly been fed this morning with the spirit of this work. We’ve been instructed in how we’re to act and what we’re to do. Now I just hope and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will go with us as we leave this meeting and that we will do what we’ve been instructed to do so that the Lord may be pleased with what we are doing.I’d like to bear my testimony to you that this is the church of Jesus Christ. Let me say that again: This is the church of Jesus Christ. This is his program. You are his stewards. We are his stewards, and he will hold us responsible as stewards.When I attended the dedication of Brigham Young University’s Monte L. Bean Life Sciences Museum, Brother Bean said, “All that we have is the Lord’s. We are his stewards, and anything that he wants of me or that the leaders of the Church want of me, I am prepared to give.” What a great spirit we would have if we would realize that all that we have to administer, all that we call our own, is the Lord’s, and we have the responsibility to do it the way he would have it done.So much has been done and is to be done, and it will be done best when we follow the principles of stewardship. I believe this is what President Kimball had in mind when he said at the last welfare conference: “Brothers and sisters, … may I urge you to go forward in this great work. So much depends upon our willingness to make up our minds collectively and individually, that present levels and performances are not acceptable, either to ourselves or the Lord.” (Nov. 1977, p. 79.)I humbly pray, my brothers and sisters, that we will do this as we represent the Lord in this great welfare work. And I leave my testimony with you that it is the work of the Lord. It is our responsibility and we will be blessed according to the way we perform our duties. May we do it well, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.