From the book of Psalms we read:“Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.“Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.“Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.“And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment, as the noonday.” The scriptures have always seemed to equate righteous living with a special light, spirit, joy, and happiness in the lives of those who so live.Many years ago when I was a retail executive, we had a night watchman in one of our stores whose teenage daughter had just joined our church. He would often comment on the change that had occurred in the life of his daughter. Her baptism had brought a new spirit into their home. I was attempting to use this event as a base to teach him the gospel.One evening as I was leaving the store, he was by the exit checking out the late customers who had completed their purchases after the store had closed. I stopped for a minute to visit with him. He immediately commenced to tell me about his daughter. He said, “You know, she just radiates since she joined your church.”I proceeded to tell him that having a trust in the Lord and conforming our life to the gospel plan does make a change, even in our countenance. Just at that time I noticed two ladies approaching the door with several other customers. They were neatly dressed, and their faces reflected a special glow. As if my eyes were directed, I immediately noticed a “Duty to God” pin on one of the lady’s dresses, which many of our fine young men present to their mothers after achieving this special award. I turned to my friend and said, “Look at those two ladies coming towards the door. They have a different look. They, too, are members of our church.”He was so caught up in my remark that he rushed over to them and asked, “Are you Mormons?” After confirming this fact, he returned to me shaking his head and saying, “You know, you can tell the difference.” I agree with him. There is a difference in those “who trust in the Lord and do good.”History has given us evidence of this fact from the very beginning. When I read the scriptures, I try to make them come alive. I try to make an association with the great characters described therein.Let me illustrate with an example. Beginning with the thirty-seventh chapter of the book of Genesis, we read a remarkable story about a family who had a large number of boys. One of the sons, Joseph, was loved by his father more than his other brothers. To show his love and appreciation for his son, his father made him a coat of many colors. “And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.” Joseph didn’t help matters much. He dreamed dreams and then would tell them to his brethren, and they hated him even more. Could you imagine how such a dream would go over in your family? He said to his brothers,“Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:“For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.“And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.” To complicate the process, his father allowed Joseph to stay home with him and sent his brethren out into the fields to tend the flocks. Every now and then he would send Joseph out to check up on his brothers. One day when they saw him coming from afar, they felt as if they could stand him no longer and conspired to slay him. They conceived a plan whereby they would kill him and cast him into a pit, then tell their father some evil beast had devoured Joseph.A brother saw a caravan coming from a distance on its way to Egypt, and said,“What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?“Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.” And they took their seventeen-year-old brother and sold him as a slave to a caravan going into Egypt, a strange land, where they spoke a strange tongue and had strange customs. But the Lord was with this remarkable young man, and he seemed never to be discouraged. Though a stranger, a slave, his countenance must have radiated a special spirit. When offered for sale, he was purchased by a captain of the king’s guard. It was only a short time before Joseph had so distinguished himself to the captain that he made him ruler over his house. In authority he was the first servant; and he was made overseer over all the captain had, and the captain put his complete trust, his properties, his income, into the hands of Joseph.Joseph was a “goodly person” and achieved a position of prominence through the help of the Lord. But trouble began again. This handsome young man attracted the eyes of the wife of the captain of the guard. One day when he was working alone in the house, she heard him and came in and put her hand on his coat. Joseph, being a righteous young man, knew that this was no place for him, and he jumped out of his garment and fled. The wife was left holding Joseph’s garment in her hand. When her husband came home, she told a terrible story about Joseph, and the captain became so angry he had Joseph cast into prison. Once again in his young life he found himself in great difficulty—this time in prison.Joseph was not easily discouraged. He set about becoming the best prisoner within the prison, and he gained favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. Insomuch that the scriptures record, “And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it.”  You see, Joseph was given the position of the highest prisoner, and all the prisoners were turned over to his charge. Again in a difficult circumstance, Joseph became the best—even as a prisoner.Cast into prison shortly after Joseph were two of the king’s officers, the chief butler and the chief baker. Joseph soon became acquainted with them. Both of them had dreams. Because Joseph was a righteous man, they asked him to interpret their dreams. Joseph was able to do this. To one he said, you will not get out of prison but lose your life here. To the other he said, you will soon have the opportunity of returning to your position of honor with the Pharaoh. Then he asked the one who would have the opportunity of being restored to his former position to please remember him to the Pharaoh because he had progressed as far as he could as a prisoner.The chief butler was restored to his position of prominence in the king’s service but forgot all about Joseph in prison for two full years. One day the king had a dream which none of the wise men could interpret. When the chief butler then remembered Joseph, he went to the king and said there was a man in prison who could interpret the dream. The Pharaoh sent for Joseph. And Joseph, with the inspiration of the Lord, interpreted the king’s dream. The king was so impressed with Joseph, he was released from prison and became a servant to the Pharaoh. Joseph again so distinguished himself as to become chief in all the land, second only to the Pharaoh himself. (See  Because of the service Joseph rendered, the Pharaoh said unto his servants, “Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?”  The Pharaoh recognized that Joseph was, indeed, directed by the Lord when he said unto Joseph, “forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art.” When one follows the course marked by the road signs of the gospel of Jesus Christ and places his trust in the Lord, its influence is such that it is manifest not only in action and deed but by a marked and visible change in his very being. There is a special light and a spirit which radiates from his eternal soul. It can be described in words like  etc.Brigham Young has said, “The person who enjoys the experience of the knowledge of the Kingdom of God on the earth, and at the same time has the love of God within him, is the happiest of any individuals on the earth. …“You never saw a true Saint in the world that had sorrow, neither can you find one. If persons are destitute of the fountain of living water, or the principles of eternal life, then they are sorrowful. If the words of life dwell within us, and we have the hope of eternal life and glory, and let that spark within us kindle to a flame, to the consuming of the least and last remains of selfishness, we never can walk in darkness and are strangers to doubt and fear. …“It does make the devil mad. That is true, it makes him mad that he cannot afflict this people so as to make them have a sad countenance. …“Where is happiness, real happiness? Nowhere but in God. By possessing the spirit of our holy religion, we are happy in the morning, we are happy at noon, we are happy in the evening; for the spirit of love and union is with us, and we rejoice in the spirit because it is of God, and we rejoice in God, for he is the giver of every good thing. Every Latter-day Saint, who has experienced the love of God in his heart, after having received the remission of his sins, through baptism, and the laying on of hands, realizes that he is filled with joy, and happiness, and consolation. He may be in pain, in error, in poverty, or in prison, if necessity demands, still, he is joyful. This is our experience, and each and every Latter-day Saint can bear witness to it.“Truly happy is that man or woman, or that people, who enjoys the privileges of the Gospel of the Son of God, and who know how to appreciate his blessings.” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941, pp. 235–36.)If this really works, it is the greatest source of happiness to be found on earth. Let me cite one more example as it was written in a recent  magazine.“In the summer of 1953 I was a sixteen-year-old apprentice actress. … Our lead actress was a pretty red-haired girl who had won the lead role in a competition (so I understood) in New York. … She and I shared a suite of rooms, and every morning when I woke up I saw [her] sitting on her bed reading. I awoke to that sight, no matter what the hour, for four months.“The news quickly spread that she was a Mormon, and in an environment where morals simply did not exist, she was as pure as snow. No drinking, no smoking, not even in plays, and no men in her room. She loved everyone, and she was so gentle and friendly even though she was the “star.” And always in the morning she was reading and reading, not her scripts, but some other books and magazines that she had brought with her.“She never talked to me about her religion, and I never asked her. But I never forgot her.“Many years later, after I had married and already had two children, my husband and I became dissatisfied with our spiritual lives. We took religion courses and went to all kinds of churches, but we still were not satisfied.“Then I remembered [her]. She had been, they said, a Mormon. We had no idea what a Mormon was, and I didn’t remember even talking about them in school history. So I went to the public library in the little Alabama town of Opelika, and checked out the only thing I could find: ‘Mormon, The Book of.’ In the back was a list of mission homes and I wrote to the nearest one, which was in Georgia, and asked if they accepted converts. The rest is part of our family history.“I’ve never been able to find that young lady to tell her that, because she lived her religion in a way that I could not forget, thirty-seven people on both sides of our families are members of the Church. Countless others in the spirit world also have been given the opportunity.” ( Dec. 1977, p. 62.)How the world needs the example of those who will let the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ radiate from their eternal souls! How we need to show that righteous living yields an eternal joy!To you who have embraced the gospel of our Lord and Savior, stand as a beacon upon a hill to light the way for those who seek a happier, more fulfilling life. To you who have not discovered this greatest of all gifts, come join with us and let us assist you in building a better life. By conforming our lives to the teachings of our Savior, we can bring greater joy to a troubled world.I humbly pray that we will place our “trust in the Lord and do good” so that it may also be said of us, as it was of Joseph of old, as we live as examples of the gospel of Jesus Christ, “Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?” God lives. Jesus is the Christ. This is his church. This is my humble witness to you today, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My beloved brethren and sisters and friends everywhere, I have in mind saying a few words about the two most important mediums of communication known to man. First, prayer—the means by which men address God—and, second, about revelation—the means by which God communicates to men.I suppose that when we speak of prayer most of us think about the prayers we offer as we gather around our tables, kneel beside our beds, or hear in our church meetings.In addition, however, it may properly be said that prayer includes other means by which men address God.Nephi doesn’t use the word  in introducing his account of his great vision. He simply says:“After I had desired to know the things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to make them known unto me, as I sat pondering in mine heart I was caught away in the Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceeding high mountain.” There is no doubt in my mind but that Nephi’s pondering was in essence a prayer.The Lord said to Emma Smith, “My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me.” Frequently, prayers are requests for specific blessings. They may, however, and should, include expressions of thanksgiving, praise, worship, and adoration. As James Montgomery has so beautifully written:The importance of prayer is emphasized by the fact that the most oft-repeated command given by God to men is to pray.The first commandment God gave Adam and Eve was “that they should worship the Lord their God.”And later “an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: …“Thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore.” The Lord took occasion to personally instruct the brother of Jared as to the importance of prayer. When he, with the Jaredite colony, reached the great sea, “the Lord came … unto [him]. … And for the space of  because he remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord.“And the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had done, and “… And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee and thy brethren … but thou shalt not sin any more, for ye shall remember that my Spirit will not always strive with man; wherefore, if ye will sin until ye are fully ripe ye shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.”  italics added.)Amulek admonished the backsliding Nephites in these words:“May God grant unto you, my brethren, that ye may begin to exercise your faith unto repentance, that ye begin to call upon his holy name, that he would have mercy upon you;“… cry unto him for mercy; for he is mighty to save.“… humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto him.”He thus instructed them what to pray about, and where, and how often they should pray.“Cry unto him when ye are in your fields, yea, over all your flocks.“Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening.“… cry unto him against the power of your enemies.“… cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness.“Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them.“Cry over the flocks of your fields, that they may increase.“But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness.“… And when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you.” As Jesus after His resurrection administered among the Nephites, He taught them how to pray by giving them the Lord’s Prayer as a pattern. And thereafter, He thus instructed His Nephite disciples:“Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat.“Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name.”As to promised rewards, He said:“And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you.“Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed.” In this last dispensation, almost two years before the Church was organized, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith:“Pray always, that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work.” Later He said to Martin Harris:“I command thee that thou shalt pray vocally as well as in thy heart; yea, before the world as well as in secret, in public as well as in private.” He directed the priests of the Church to “visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret.”  See also He admonished Joseph Knight, “You must  as well as in secret, and in your family, and among your friends, and in all places.”  italics added.)And to Thomas B. Marsh: “Pray always, lest you enter into temptation and lose your reward.” To others He said,   italics added.)“What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place.” Parents “shall … teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.” Speaking of the Church members in Zion, the Lord said, “He that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people.” The purpose of prayer, however, is not to appease a vindictive Deity; nor is it to court favors from an indulgent Father. It is to attune oneself with the spirit or light which “proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space.”  In that light is to be found sure answers to all our needs.Prayer is the key which unlocks the door and lets Christ into our lives.“Behold,” said He, “I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.” Just as prayer is the means by which men address the Lord, so revelation is the means by which God communicates to men. In doing so, He uses various means. The spoken word, for example, was the method He used to answer Adam’s prayer. Adam and Eve “ the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden, speaking unto them.”  italics added.)In addition to the spoken word, the Lord at times appears personally.“Abraham, talked with the Lord, face to face, as one man talketh with another.” “And God spake unto Moses. …“And … the glory of the Lord was upon Moses, so that Moses stood in the presence of God, and talked with him face to face.” Joseph Smith the Prophet gives us this testimony of the personal appearance to him of both the Father and the Son:“I saw,” he said, “a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.“[In it] I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—” Sometimes the Lord sends personal representatives to communicate with men He sent Moroni, for example, to visit and instruct the Prophet Joseph Smith several times. Introducing his account of these visits, the Prophet wrote:“After I had retired to my bed for the night, I betook myself to prayer and supplication to Almighty God. …“While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air.” On other occasions the Lord has communicated with men by means of dreams and visions—Daniel’s dream, for example, and Nephi’s vision.Enos says, “The voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments.” I can personally testify to this form of revelation because I have experienced it.For example: I was once concluding a talk I had given at the funeral of a fine Latter-day Saint mother and was almost ready to say amen and sit down. There came into my mind the words, “Turn around and bear your testimony.” And this I did. I thought no more about the event for several months until my sister, then living in a neighboring stake, paid us a visit and told us this incident:She said: “There lives in our ward a woman who for many years has taken no interest in the Church. Our efforts to activate her have been fruitless. Recently she has completely changed. She pays her tithing, attends sacrament meetings regularly, and participates in all Church activities. When asked what caused the reformation, she said: ‘I went to Salt Lake City to the funeral of my mother. During the services a man by the name of Romney spoke. After he had given an ordinary talk, I thought he was going to sit down; but instead he turned around to the pulpit and bore a testimony which greatly impressed me. It awakened in me a desire to live as my mother had always taught me.’”Now I know, my brothers and sisters and friends, and bear witness to the fact that revelation from the Lord comes through the spoken word, by personal visitation, by messengers from the Lord, through dreams, and by way of visions, and by the voice of the Lord coming into one’s mind.Most often, however, revelation comes to us by means of the still, small voice.The importance and reality of this means of revelation is attested to and emphasized by the Lord himself.Concerning the truthfulness of the Prophet’s testimony about the gold plates containing the Book of Mormon record, the Lord said in a revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Oliver Cowdery: “Behold, thou knowest that thou hast inquired of me and I did enlighten thy mind,” and added, “Did I not speak peace to your mind concerning the matter?” With respect to Oliver’s receiving “a knowledge concerning the engravings” on the plates which Joseph was translating (see  the Lord said, “Behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.” In making decisions, revelation from the Lord is available to everyone who will qualify and seek for it. And this is the divine formula:“You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right.“But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings.” To the truthfulness of these divine teachings concerning prayer and revelation, I bear witness to you in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.