President Kimball, President Tanner, President Romney, and other beloved brethren and sisters: It has been three years since this historic Tabernacle was filled with the women of the Church for the purpose of hearing the counsel of the prophet of God. We have missed the sweet spirit of sisterhood found in gathering together and the blessing of peace and comfort which comes when we meet as sisters, by appointment in his name.It has been an eventful three year period—in the history of the world and the history of the Church. And, in some very particular ways, it has been a challenging three years. Never before has so much been said and written about woman’s role and her place in society.I have had the blessing of meeting with many of you during these three years, and I know that you are prayerfully seeking to understand what the Lord requires of you in this swiftly changing world. The new convert who came up to me after a meeting put it this way: “What a Mormon woman?” From Japan came the inquiry: “Now that we have forsaken the pattern of our parents and have increased the number of children in our family, how do we raise them?” From women who head their own families come the pleas for direction: “How can I be independent and self-supporting and also stay at home with my children, when there is no support from other sources?” From the single woman: “How can I fit into a Church that is family oriented when there is no husband in my life? Is there work for me to do in the kingdom of God?” The answer is yes. The work of women is essential in the kingdom, whether as wife, mother, sister, or all three.As sisters in Relief Society, we have a noble heritage, a present challenge, and a vision of greatness to be. With the organization of the Relief Society came the Lord’s program for his daughters. The cornerstone of that work was to become deeply engaged in relieving suffering among his children.The Prophet also instructed the sisters that their Society “is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.” That challenge is much with us today.Since we last met together as women of the Church to address our particular concerns, we have been forced into confrontation with many of the issues of our day.It is important to the spread of the gospel message that we approach the current problems with thoughtful analysis and with the spirit of love. As the Prophet Joseph pointed out in Nauvoo to those earliest Relief Society sisters, we do have a responsibility for the moral climate of the communities in which we live. We cannot abdicate our responsibility as citizens.In the early days of the Church here in this valley, the leaders of the Relief Society, other stalwart women of the community, and the presiding Brethren of the Church worked together to establish suffrage for women among the Saints. It was not expedient. It was not even judicious, in the light of the desperate struggle for statehood, and yet the right of women to vote was unanimously agreed upon and written into their constitution by the first legislators of Utah territory because it was a righteous principle.Today, Latter-day Saint women with more opportunity for education, with the right of voting, must step forward to be part of the solution of society’s problems. We must exercise responsible citizenship.How do we do it?Henry Ward Beecher once declared: “Whatever is only almost true is quite false, and among the most dangerous of errors, because being so near truth, it is the more likely to lead astray.”In today’s world I feel our greatest challenge is to work out solutions to our problems that are consistent with the spirit of the gospel teachings.Three significant steps are:First, prayer. Let us pray constantly that we may not be deceived, and live close to the Lord, obeying his laws. Then we shall find the light and the truth we need for that particular set of problems with which we grapple individually.Second, scriptures. Study the scriptures, for what he has said to one he has said to all. Study the life of the Savior; he is the example for each one of us.Third, listen to the prophet who leads us today. One of the great messages of the Restoration is that the heavens are open and God leads us through his anointed prophet.On political matters President Kimball has encouraged us to study the issues and use our agency. He has counseled us to select leaders and programs consistent with the principles of truth. He has urged us to act independently.On matters of morality he has given more specific counsel. On such issues as abortion, the Equal Rights Amendment, homosexuality, and pornography—current issues sometimes categorized as women’s issues—he has given direct counsel. Mormon women know that they have the right to accept or reject the counsel; but in keeping with fundamental doctrine, they must also realize that to reject it is a heavy responsibility. It is the calling of a prophet to see to the very heart of a moral issue, to envision its future course, and to warn the people of its consequences. Sometimes those who do not agree with what he says may refuse to heed the warning. Only later, sadly, is the truth of his words made obvious to all.Sometimes the people do heed the prophet’s warning. When Jonah was sent to Nineveh to prophesy the destruction of that great, wicked city, “the people of Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them”  They turned from their evil ways in repentance, and God spared their city.In the production presented in Nauvoo this summer at the dedication of the Monument to Women, Elizabeth concludes that she will not be able to solve all the problems she sees nor to meet every challenge. But she recognizes that what she does not get done, others will try to do. And as the play ends, one is struck with the great influence one woman has had in the lives of the thousands who are her direct descendants. And beyond those thousands are thousands more who have heard the gospel because of her missionary sons and grandsons and great-grandsons and great-granddaughters.This is the great, traditional, ongoing, irreplaceable contribution women have made over the past decades. And we believe it is important to continue and value this work of women. Women should see the magnitude of that calling clearly. Beyond that central theme there are many other problems to solve, and women have a responsibility to be part of the solutions. We must use our talents in every way we can, because it will take the best that is in each of us to make headway in solving the problems of the world today.And perhaps more important for us, it will take all our heart, might, mind, and strength to do the work the Lord has given us—that is to live so that we, and those we can influence, will gain exaltation in the kingdom of God.We are the people raised up to do this work; we, the women of the Church, hand-in-hand with the men—our husbands, our sons, our brothers in the priesthood.May the Lord bless us as women with that eternal perspective. May our decisions be those that will allow us to work in love and unity and faithfulness I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.President Kimball, brethren of the General Authorities who are here with us, thank you for this privilege and for your presence. And to you sisters across the waves of sound, our greetings and our love. To all of you radiant mothers and daughters gathered here in the Tabernacle (including my own daughters and my mother who have come from their scattered homes to be in the presence of the prophet on this historic occasion). You are a wonderful delight to look upon.I join with you all in the joy of being a woman, and in the privilege of being a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the fulness of times. For those of you who haven’t joined the Church yet, we welcome you when it’s right for you to come. Some of us have just come from a very special reception which the Young Women hosted in our building across the way. We honored lovely Sister Camilia Kimball and Sister Tanner and other wives of the General Authorities and their daughters. We paid particular tribute to Sister Funk and her counselors who have just been released as the general presidency of the Young Women. We deeply respect and affectionately appreciate all of these sisters. We commend them to you as models for your own lives. They live close to the Lord. They follow the Prophet implicitly. They contribute to society meaningfully, and in turn they have endured difficult circumstances which bring beauty into life. We include other women seated here before you—Sister Louise Lake, Sister Belle Spafford—among this distinguished group of women whom we all would do well to emulate.Now tonight, clear across the world for the first time, the Church women over twelve are meeting. We are tied together by technology but sense each other’s spirit through that tender influence of the Lord Jesus Christ. We mark this moment as the beginning—at last—of a unique unification of all the sisters of the Church, and we are focusing on proper priorities instead of personal preferences or even programs. We see it as a significant enveloping of all of us under the mantle of the mouthpiece of the Lord, President Spencer W. Kimball. Now, as he speaks to us tonight, it is as if the Lord Jesus Christ himself were addressing us sisters. Christ made this very clear when he said to others of his children a time ago, “Blessed are ye if ye shall give heed unto the words of these … whom I have chosen from among you to minister unto you” “And whatsoever they shall speak … shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation.“Behold, this is the promise of the Lord.”  So, President Kimball, with all of our hearts we sisters of the Church sustain you, and we shall try to heed your words.I’m going to share an experience I had with President Kimball to help you understand what a choice human being he is, besides a powerful prophet, and perhaps base the rest of my remarks on this incident. I stood alone in the basement of the Church Office Building about two years ago, waiting for an elevator. It was very early on a Monday morning, well before the influx of office workers. As the elevator lowered into place, suddenly two Church security officers appeared from out of somewhere and held back the opening doors. Now, nobody does that for me, so I looked around just in time to see President Kimball and his personal secretary, Brother Haycock, entering the area. They moved quickly into the secured area, and I quickly moved out of the way. Well, as President Kimball turned and faced the front of the elevator, he saw me standing out there waiting for the next one. And he said to me very graciously, “Good morning.” And I said, “Good morning, President Kimball.” And he said, “Aren’t you going to get on?” And I said, “Well—” and hesitated for a few moments—“I didn’t think I was supposed to under the circumstances.” And then he said, “Aren’t you going up?” And I said, “Yes.” And he said, “Well, tell me, how do you intend to get there?” And then he said, “Come along.” So I got on! At the prophet’s invitation I was happy to ride up with him.Tonight President Kimball extends an invitation, with some specifics, I am sure, for all of us as women to follow him as he follows the Savior. If we want to “go up,” we must “get on.” It is that simple. He is our leader, in all the world of would-be leaders, who can guide us back to the presence of God.Sisters, this church is the saving remnant of the world. And what is our part as women in all of this? The girl is the future mother of the man. The woman is companion to the priesthood. She is molder of the next generation. As women ours is the gift to love, to influence for good, to marry, and to mother—but according to the timetable of the Lord for us. (So hang in there, sisters. If it hasn’t happened yet, it may a little later than sooner. And when the time comes, if you have lived for it, have no regrets that you prayed so fervently for a good man who now is always off to a meeting or filling some celestial assignment, depending upon the timing.) You see, the details of your life and the timing really aren’t all that important. They just point up differences to us—married or single, living alone, barren or bulging with blessings. These are just details. What does matter is our personal relationship with the Lord and our own unshakable testimony that he cares enough about each one of us to be there when we really need him.Though we are women with different cultural backgrounds clear across the span of my voice, some with varying differences in personal situations (we may even clash at times on opinions regarding temporal trends or how to bake a loaf of bread properly), my firm feeling is that we must pursue a course of a covenant people. We must secure those traditions which are sacred to good people everywhere. In each country as you hear this program by direct line, your course should become clear, your priorities ought to be known to you as a daughter of God. Personal opinions may vary. Eternal principles never do. When the prophet speaks, sisters, the debate is over. So I urge us all to provide powerful unity as women for those things we can agree upon—family, chastity, accountability to the Lord, responsibility in the community, sharing the gospel. To help us, it seems there are at least two critical areas to concentrate on—for all of us of all ages, whether we are whole or lame, at peace or troubled, privileged or seemingly deprived. The first is to strengthen self. The second is to serve the Lord by serving others. This is the way it works: We gain a personal testimony. We share it with others. We learn the principles of the gospel. We apply them as we associate with others. We keep a personal record, and we do our genealogy. And, sisters, we emphatically and happily declare, “I will be obedient! I will help strengthen others that they may be so too!”In Christ’s day, people were pressing heavily about him on one occasion. A woman in trouble reached out to touch him in faith. His disciples scoffed that Christ should question who had touched him when so many were crowding about, and yet, he knew her touch was different. She had connected. He responded by healing her.Sisters, our touch must be different. Rather than merely moving about Christ, wanly waiting for his blessings, we must reach out and connect—in faith. The prophet is here today to show us how. As he quietly taught me that early morning, if we want to go up, we have to get on.If by any chance there are doubts in any hearts within the sound of my voice, or if your own testimony is at all shakey at the moment, hang on to ours while yours grows. I know that God lives, and I know that Jesus is the Christ and a necessary Redeemer, that he loves us and that his principles suffice. On this very special occasion of my maiden voyage, as it were, I am thankful to be able to personally testify that as President Kimball placed his hands upon my head with the other Brethren, President Tanner and President Romney, to set me apart as the general president of the Young Women of the Church, I felt, through the power of the Holy Ghost, that sweet and undeniable witness of the validity of his calling as prophet. This church is true, sisters. The system—priesthood, womanhood—is a blessing to us.As each challenge comes to us in life, and as our timetable varies a little from what we thought it was going to be, may we be wise enough to find ourselves on the Lord’s side, getting on and going up with the prophet, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.