I want to say to the brethren in the choir, thanks very much for thrilling us with the wonderful musical numbers you rendered tonight.At one time the First Presidency made this significant statement: “This Church owes its origin, its existence, and its hope for the future to the principle of continuous revelation.” (“Policy Statement of Presidency,”  10 Jan. 1970, p. 12.)Revelation in its broadest sense is defined as “communication from God to man.” Revelation comes from the Lord in many different ways.The first prophet of this dispensation, Joseph Smith, received revelation in almost every way that the Lord communicates his mind and will to man. The first revelation that he received was an actual visitation of our Heavenly Father and His resurrected Son, the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.This first revelation, often referred to as “the First Vision,” had a far-reaching effect. First, it was a flat contradiction of the assumption that revelation had ceased and that God no longer communicated with man. Second, it reaffirmed the truth that man indeed was created in the image and after the likeness of God. Third, it left no doubt and verified that the Father and the Son are two separate and distinct persons, being one only in unity of purpose and of will.The Prophet received communications from heavenly beings. Such is the case of Moroni who revealed to him the existence of the gold plates which were translated into the Book of Mormon. Later came John the Baptist, who restored the Aaronic Priesthood; and Peter, James, and John, who restored the Melchizedek Priesthood; also the beings mentioned in what is usually called the Kirtland Temple vision. (See   As we read the Doctrine and Covenants, we become aware that many of the revelations recorded there were received by the Prophet through the use of the Urim and Thummim. This was the instrument employed by the Prophet in translating the Book of Mormon.The Prophet received divine intelligence by open visions. Such is section 76.  He also received revelation through the inspiration of God operating upon his mind. Indeed, the larger number of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants were received in this manner.As we study the scriptures, we learn of the other different ways in which the Lord communicates with His children here upon the earth. Stephen, who was stoned to death, became filled with the Holy Ghost. He looked up steadfastly into heaven and beheld “Jesus standing on the right hand of God.”  Saul, who was present at the stoning, was active in persecuting Stephen and other followers of Jesus. Later, while on the road to Damascus, he beheld “a light from heaven.“… he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?“And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.” Saul was converted, and changed his ways, and became known as Paul. Later, he was chosen as an apostle and was a faithful follower and disciple of the Savior.Ofttimes messages are conveyed by dreams. Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had several dreams. He called in his wise men and others to interpret those dreams, but they were unable to do so.Pharaoh had dreamed that he was near a river and that seven head of cattle came up out of the river and fed in the meadow. They were fat, beautiful animals and well fed. Then seven more head came up. They were lean, scrawny, and undernourished; and, falling upon the fat cattle, they devoured them. (See Pharaoh learned that there was a young man who had been unjustly cast into prison. He had been able to interpret the dreams of Pharaoh’s butler and baker. This young man’s name was Joseph. He was one of the twelve sons of Israel. Joseph had been sold by his brothers to the Ishmaelites, who were on their way to Egypt. Joseph was taken from prison; and when Pharaoh related his dreams, Joseph was able to interpret those dreams. He saw that there would be seven years of plenty. They would be followed by seven years of famine. Joseph suggested that, during the abundant years, a surplus be stored to provide for the time of famine that was to follow. Pharaoh was deeply impressed and, having complete confidence in Joseph, appointed him to be in charge of the storing project. Joseph was granted unlimited powers and authority and was second only to Pharaoh in all of Egypt. (See  One of the best examples of the voice of the Lord coming into one’s mind is Enos. Enos was taught well by his father, but being young and immature, he was somewhat rebellious and committed some minor errors. Later he became aware of his misdeeds and the truth of his father’s teachings. He had a great desire to repent, to put his life in order, and to live righteously. Enos enjoyed hunting very much. One day as he went into the forest to hunt, the teachings of his father were strong in his mind. He had an intense desire to be forgiven of his past misdeeds. Kneeling down, he made earnest supplication to the Lord to forgive him. All day he pled in sincere prayer for forgiveness and continued his prayers into the night. Finally, a voice came unto him saying, “Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee.” Also, having concern for his brethren, he prayed for them. While he was thus struggling in the spirit, the voice of the Lord came into his mind, giving him certain assurances. (See While we know that designated leaders of the Church are sustained as prophets, seers, and revelators, and receive revelation in connection with their callings, we might ask, who else can receive revelation? President Brigham Young taught that every individual can receive revelation for himself. (See  sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1941, p. 35.) Parents can receive revelation in connection with rearing their families.It is my firm belief that the bishop of every ward and the president of every stake have the right to receive revelation as to what is best for their ward and stake members. Also, that every person who accepts a calling from the Lord has the right to receive revelation in connection with that calling if he is living righteously so that he is in tune with the Spirit of the Lord.But there is one thing that we must remember and keep clearly in mind. This doctrine was expressed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., many years ago in these words: The Lord has declared that “the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator for the Church … alone has the right to receive revelations for the Church, … or change in any way the existing doctrines of the Church.” No other member has any such right or authority. (“When Are Church Leaders’ Words Entitled to Claim of Scripture?”  31 July 1954, p. 2.)The person that we look to today for revelation is President Spencer W. Kimball. I testify that he does receive revelation from the Lord for the guidance of this Church. May we hearken unto his counsel and have the wisdom and good judgment to follow that counsel, for which I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.My beloved brethren of the priesthood, my heart always fills to overflowing as we meet each six months in this great general priesthood meeting of the Church. Believe me when I say that no force on earth can possibly match the potential power of so many men meeting together with the priesthood of God as their common cause.Thanks to the modern-day miracle of such things as transistors, coaxial cables, and earth-orbiting satellites, other thousands are able to join with us in faraway places. Way over in Perth, Australia, halfway around the world from Salt Lake City, I can visualize Bruce Opie, the mission president, sitting in the midst of his missionaries as they attend this priesthood meeting on the shores of the Indian Ocean. It is already tomorrow morning where they are.Then there is young Carlos down in Argentina, where it’s midnight; but who cares about a few hours of lost sleep compared to the privilege of being instructed by a living prophet? You see, Carlos is preparing to invest two years of his life as a missionary for the Lord.Speaking of investments: While walking down Main Street the other day, I was impressed with the number of signs encouraging people to invest their money. Each bank offered a return on that investment of 6 to 8 percent, depending upon the conditions of investment.Just about four months ago a missionary was released from one of our Australia-New Zealand missions and in the following report talks about the Lord’s interest payments or dividends received following an investment of two years in His service. The missionary writes:“First and foremost, I learned the importance and power of prayer—I learned to communicate with the Lord, and how to recognize His answers—even when He says no. I learned about having implicit faith and trust in the Lord, something I never had before. I learned to heed the promptings of the Holy Ghost. I also developed the gift of discernment. I had this to a degree before, but in the mission field I learned how to use it properly. Most important of all, I learned about myself, what I could really do.“I found an ability to communicate with other people,” he continues, “and that has been a major milestone in my life. Since finishing my mission, I can walk across campus with my head held high, and look others in the eye. I am now at ease with people; I can face situations. I am not afraid to speak my piece—and I can do it appropriately. I find myself much more organized and tidy—Mom can’t believe it’s me! I can work harder and accomplish more. I have always cared for others, but now I know how to show my concern. I don’t fall apart as easily as I used to; so you could say without question, I have changed significantly, thanks to my mission.”Now listen to this part: “As I awaited my hour of release, I received a witness that the Lord was pleased with my effort. It was thrilling when I talked to the mission president, especially when he looked me in the eye and said, ‘I am proud of you.’ That was reward enough for me. What a great feeling to look back and know that I gave the Lord the best that was in me! It brings a satisfaction and a peace that can come in no other way.”Here’s another choice bit: “I was very nervous about my homecoming talk in sacrament meeting. I wanted to say the right things. Since that special Sunday evening, my bishop writes me down here at the “Y” [Brigham Young University] and tells me that there are three young people in the ward beginning to plan for missions as a direct result of my talk!”And finally: “Not once have I ever regretted accepting the call to go on a mission. It is the most worthwhile thing I ever did. I am even thankful for the hard times, for they strengthened my character and helped me to at least begin to be the person my Heavenly Father would have me be. I learned so much more than I could have learned if I had stayed home. The Church is true without a doubt, and I am so thankful just to be a member. I am so thankful for the relationship which I have developed with the Savior, for it is an outgrowth of my mission and nothing else.”Yes, that’s a great letter, and we can say without reservation that the Lord is the greatest paymaster in the world—not 6 percent, not 8 percent, but would you believe something like a thousand percent interest? And not only immediate interest, but it goes on forever. What a tremendous dividend.But to go on a mission for the singular purpose of self-improvement is really doing the right thing for the wrong reason. Anyone who answers a call to go on an errand for the Lord must have as his objective the totally unselfish desire to bless the lives of other people.As it was with the Savior, so must it be with us who take upon ourselves priesthood authority and the attendant obligation to represent Him. It is not always at our own convenience but, more importantly, as His Spirit whispers and when the direction comes. To be called on a mission is not the easy downhill path, but almost always there is some struggle involved; there will be a high degree of sacrifice required and, without exception, plenty of hard work and all of the faith that we can muster to accomplish it.Brethren of the priesthood, whether you be the most recently ordained deacon or a high priest with years of rich experience, your duty is to prepare yourselves for a mission call. If you have never been on a mission, the Lord wants you to prepare for one. If you have been on a mission, the Lord wants you to prepare for another one. There are four billion people out there who need what we have—and they need it urgently!Let me conclude by sharing with you a recent episode in the life of Elder Anguiano, a young Mexican-American who prepared for a Spanish-speaking mission, only to be called by the prophet to serve in Christchurch, New Zealand, of all places! Imagine a young man with Spanish as his prime language being sent to a country where the Spanish language is spoken very rarely, if ever!As President Philip Sonntag waited at the airport for his one lone missionary to arrive, his mind was seeking for divine help in the proper placement of a young man with Spanish language ability in a mission where only English was understood. As the passengers started deplaning, President Sonntag spotted his new elder immediately. Maybe it was his gleaming, new white shirt that seemed particularly white compared to the other holidaying passengers. His sparkling attitude set him apart as being very special. He was one of the Lord’s anointed. His steps quickened as he neared the terminal building. He was obviously eager to start his mission. As he approached his mission president, it was with outstretched arms for a warm Mexican  This was his background, this was his custom even in faraway New Zealand. And then he spoke his first words: “President, I have come here to baptize.”Now, mission presidents don’t usually release one of their assistants to be a trainer for a new missionary, but when the Spirit prompted President Sonntag for the third time, he was convinced, and Elder Keung, an outstanding young man of Chinese and Maori parentage, was made available to form this “League of Nations” companionship.Would you believe that not more than three weeks later President Sonntag was informed that the two had contacted what was perhaps the only family on the south island of New Zealand who could speak nothing but Spanish? This Chilean family, newly arrived in New Zealand, needed the Church. They needed Elder Anguiano, and the Lord answered that need through a living prophet. Not only that, but word has now come that more than one hundred other families from Chile are currently in the process of immigrating to New Zealand, and Elder Anguiano is anxiously waiting with his newly baptized family to start the friendshipping and teaching process.The Lord is in charge of this work! You and I are involved in a divine process that involves the salvation of Heavenly Father’s children wherever they may be. We must prepare now so the prophet will not be restricted in what he has been given to do.Our greatest challenge as missionaries will be to lift people up, to literally remove them from the ways of the world—a world that is being rocked with immorality, weakened by unclean thoughts, eroded by selfishness, and riddled with human pride. May virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly; then our confidence will be strong in His service. (See  We first must take ourselves out of the world as much as we can; then, standing on higher ground, we can reach out; we can lift up; we can then teach the truth. It shouldn’t matter when the call comes. It shouldn’t matter where we are asked to go. It may be within the ward, it could be halfway around the world; but as the Savior said during His most trying hour, “Father, … not my will, but thine, be done.”  I wonder if each of us could say that right here tonight: “Not my will, but thine.”May it be so, I pray, for in this great priesthood assemblage tonight are those foreordained to be the hope of the world; and I so declare it as my personal testimony, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.