The gospel of Jesus Christ, as we know it, and as it has been restored to the earth, makes people happy. I was speaking to a prominent lawyer from New York a short time ago. He looked at me in my circumstances and said, “What more could you ever want in life?” I agreed with him, and I analyzed it: I looked into my past, into my present, and of course, realized once again the great blessings we enjoy as a family unit. I love my wife. The Lord gave her to me. I love the gospel. I know it’s true. I told President Kimball two days ago when I met him that for sometime now—for some two to four years—every time I look at his picture, every time I see him at a distance, every time I shake his hand, I know who he is. He is the representative of the Lord on this earth. I know this is true.Because the gospel of Jesus Christ makes us happy, we do desire to share this message with all people. I pledge my life and means and full service to the Lord, to the presidency of the Church, and to any persons who preside over me. I desire to serve. I have said on many occasions recently that one of the things I would dislike the most is not to be involved. It didn’t matter what I was doing, just so I was doing something in the Church.The Savior’s example of service was great to us. We should follow and emulate the same.I pray for a special blessing to be with each of us, that we may catch the vision that President Kimball has as to the great need and urgency that is in the world to expedite the work. I pray that we may be able to do so, of course, with only one thing in mind, and that is to further and strengthen the work.My wife and I had a very unique experience this last week or two. Something we had planned on doing for nearly twenty years was coming to fruition at the end of this year. We independently looked at each other and said, “I don’t know why, but I don’t think we should do it.” And of course, Thursday we found out why.I’m grateful for the intervention of the Lord in my life. I pray that I will be worthy of the great many blessings he gives to me, that I might be a great service to the upbuilding of his kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My brothers and sisters, I am deeply grateful for the love and confidence of the First Presidency, and for the sustaining vote of this conference that has brought me here before you at this time. I love the Lord and I love his work.At the risk of being unduly personal, I would like to tell you how I feel about the gospel. I love it, not compelled by lack of choice or circumstance nor by the uncritical adoption of patterns commanded from afar; not manipulated, but acting consciously, constructively, purposely, giving a freewill offering of the heart. I want to be involved in the Lord’s work—humbly, totally, positively, and honestly; neither subordinating my soul to nor seeking dominion over others, but being freely one with those who are his, sharing and caring, thankful to be a part of the work wherever it may be, not to escape aloneness nor to fill life with self-deceptive activity, but rather knowingly and willingly doing what must be done; a grateful fellow servant, supporting, building, loving, lending heart and breath to a great cause.I want to stand firm and fearless, not weakening—for weakness implies pressure from without—but radiating strength and charity truly from within; offensively—not defensively—enthusiastically, sweetly, faithfully, everlasting in harmony with the Lord. May we all become one with him and his prophet and bring harmony into the work that we are in charge of, wherever that may be, in whatever land, I pray for each of us, and most especially for me, as I acknowledge my weaknesses and stand before you to accept this great calling. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.