When I was three months old, the Salt Lake Stake held a great pageant here in this tabernacle. My angelic mother played the part of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and I had the honor of playing the role of the Christ child. I know I must have been much more comfortable at that time than I am now, probably because I didn’t have to speak. But from that day to this, my beloved brothers and sisters, I have felt the Lord’s guiding hand leading me and protecting me, sometimes protecting me from myself.I’ve enjoyed such rich experiences as I’ve grown up and matured. As each one has come along, I’ve questioned, “Why me? Why has the Lord given me such rich opportunities to grow and to develop? Why has he provided such opportunities to give service?” I thank him from the bottom of my heart for the richness of my life, the happiness which I’ve enjoyed.All of my life it seems that I’ve been surrounded by people who have built me and caused me to be better than myself, again, who sometimes have protected me from myself: my noble parents, who from the cradle have taught me the priorities that I ought to have in my life as they have sought the Lord first and foremost in their lives; a lovely, faithful wife who has sustained me in every calling I’ve received; seven beautiful daughters who think I ought to be the president of the Church; their wonderful husbands who are faithful and true to the covenants they have made in the house of the Lord; and delightful little grandchildren who are the joy of my life.President Benson, in our seminar last Friday, mentioned the fact that the highest honor we could have is to be members of God’s church, which I am; to know that Christ is our Savior, our personal Savior, which I testify to you I know; to hold his holy priesthood, which I do; and to be a part of an eternal family unit, which I am. I’m honored above all men. I’m blessed above all men. And I’m so grateful for this holy calling which has come to me.I want to say to each one of you, my beloved brothers and sisters, that every blessing I have in my life, everything I hold dear and precious in my heart, I can trace to my membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to my love of the Lord, to the testimony I have of his divine gospel, and to the responses I’ve made to the opportunities of service.I rejoice now for the opportunity of concentrating my entire life to his service, and without reservation I lay my life and everything I have at his feet. President Kimball and my beloved brethren, my dear wife and I are prepared to go wherever you want to send us and do whatever you ask of us, and pray only that we might be instruments in the hands of the Lord to assist you dear brethren in your awesome assignment to build the kingdom of God; to sanctify his people; and to prepare the way when Christ will come in all of his glory and will take the reins of government, and Satan will be bound, and every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that he is the Savior of the world, and he will reign forever and ever, which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.My beloved brothers and sisters, my heart is very full at this time, as I’m sure you will realize—full of love and gratitude. At this time I would thank you from the bottom of my heart for the sustaining power of your love and faith and prayers as evidenced by the uplifted hand.We’re so grateful for the gospel in our lives. We’re serving in the mission field at the present time and feel we are repaying in some small measure the great work that was done by some young missionaries so many years ago. They came to our home in the late summer of 1950, knocked on the door, and opened the eyes of our understanding to the fulness of the gospel.I’ve heard many missionaries express appreciation to their missionary companions, and I would like to express my appreciation at this time for my wonderful missionary companion, who is also my eternal companion—a devoted wife and mother who has always smoothed the way for me to be able to serve the Lord. I’m grateful for wonderful children, some of them with their own families now who have been raised in the Church and married in the temple—all because missionaries knocked on our door. I know that through the sacred temple ordinances we can all be together, and shall be, eternally.What a great blessing comes to us when we hear and accept the gospel! I earnestly pray that everyone, all people, will listen to the missionaries—that those who are members of the Church will listen to the missionaries as they teach their friends in their home, that all those who have not yet accepted the gospel will open their hearts to the gospel message.The fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored in these last days. I know that to be true. It has brought us so much happiness in our lives. We have learned to pray meaningfully; we have learned to pray in our family; we have learned to pray as husband and wife; we have learned to pray in secret and to pour out our hearts to the Lord and receive guidance. How grateful we are for those eternal blessings!How thankful I am for a loving Father in Heaven who sent his Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ, into the world to lead and guide us back to him. I bear testimony that the Lord Jesus Christ does live. He did live in mortality and gave us the perfect example. He did show us the way to live, and we can always say (and I do many times, indeed, each day), “What would the Savior have me do? What would the Savior do?” He did ransom us and make the supreme sacrifice and infinite atonement which only the Son of God could make. I know that he lives and that he has restored his gospel in its fulness in these last days. He has restored his church. He has restored the saving ordinances.He has restored the priesthood power once more to man to prepare for his glorious second coming. I know that he speaks today and reveals his will through a mighty prophet, even President Spencer W. Kimball, whose faith and works are great, even unto miracles and unto the opening of the doors of the nations. We pray for him, and we pray that the doors of the nations will be unlocked.We pray for the success of the missionaries and are so grateful to be involved in this wonderful latter-day work. We love Sister Kimball so much and pray for her, the wonderful, eternal companion for the prophet of the Lord.We’re so grateful to love and support these wonderful brethren here. And we feel of their sustaining strength and are so grateful for it. My cup runneth over as I rededicate myself and my family to serve the Lord all the days of our lives and to follow his prophet, in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.