Brethren, I have a prayer in my heart that what I have to say can be said under the direction of the Spirit to our edification, and I invite you to join me in that prayer. I have in mind saying a few things about the responsibilities of priesthood bearers. My beloved brethren: I shall first speak to us fathers, concerning our responsibility to teach and train our children. I shall then speak to you Aaronic Priesthood holders.I recently spent Saturday night in a hotel. Sunday morning I was awakened by rowdy talking. The language was profane, filthy, and disgusting. I was shocked to learn that the speakers were mere children. Into my mind came the proverb:“Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.” Then came the words of the revelation: “Little children … cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children … that great things may be required at the hand of their fathers.” I was saddened as I thought about the suffering which these children and their fathers will have to endure because of the neglect of the training “required at the hand of their fathers.”We fathers should never forget the Lord’s decree that “inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, … that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents.“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.” Referring to these instructions, the  has this to say:“Many people in the world consider that they have done their full duty to their children, when they have given them shelter, food, clothing, and education. … But Latter-day Saints have a still more important duty, as parents. They must teach their children. … It is not enough to send them to Primaries, Sunday-schools, and day-schools. The parents themselves have a personal duty to perform as teachers of their children. They must see to it that the little ones are … taught to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord.” (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl,  rev. ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 414.)If we fathers would frequently read verses 40 to 50 of the ninety-third section of the Doctrine and Covenants,  we would be greatly helped to keep alert to our divinely imposed responsibilities to teach and train our children.And now let me remind you Aaronic Priesthood holders that you yourselves have a responsibility in this matter. The Lord holds you responsible for your own conduct from the time you are eight years of age.At birth, each of you was enlightened by the Spirit of Christ. This Spirit, sometimes called conscience, gave you a sense of right and wrong even before you were eight years old. When you were baptized and confirmed, you were given the gift of the Holy Ghost to help you.At twelve most of you received the Aaronic Priesthood. To you, God actually delegated some of his priesthood power and authority. He has so much confidence in you that he has given you authority to perform certain functions in his church—functions which the Savior himself performed. When you perform them, your actions are just as sacred and authoritative as when Jesus or his apostles performed them.Concerning Aaronic Priesthood responsibilities, the Lord, at the time he organized the Church, said:“The priest’s duty is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament,“And visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties. …“The teacher’s duty,” he said, “is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them; …“And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty.” The deacon’s duty is to pass the sacrament, gather fast offerings, and “to warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite all to come unto Christ.” (See The blessings you will receive, if you properly perform your assigned Aaronic Priesthood duties, will be glorious.I hope you will have such a desire and a determination to so magnify your present callings that when you receive the Melchizedek Priesthood you will continue on until you are numbered among the “elect of God,” which the Lord promises in the great revelation on priesthood as follows:“Whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods … and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies.“They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God.” As a general rule, great and noble men have been noble boys who built their foundations for greatness while in their Aaronic Priesthood years.As I now refer to some of these great men, I suggest you note their virtues and resolve to emulate them.Consider, for example, the great moral virtue of chastity demonstrated by Joseph. At seventeen years of age he was taken into Egypt as a slave and sold to “Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s.” His upright, efficient conduct so impressed Potiphar that he made him master of all his possessions, including his home and household. Joseph was so attractive that Potiphar’s wife repeatedly sought to seduce him. He, however, rejected her advances, saying, “How … can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?” She lied about him, and he was imprisoned.Because of his integrity, however, the Lord so blessed him that he was released from prison and became Pharaoh’s chief administrator. Eventually he became an instrument in preserving the whole house of Israel. Most of us here tonight proudly claim to be numbered among his posterity.Every priesthood bearer, Aaronic and Melchizedek, should observe Joseph’s standards of chastity.Daniel was an example of courage.As a youth he was taken into Babylon to be trained by King Nebuchadnezzar. At their peril, he and his three Hebrew companions refused to break their word of wisdom. They refused to eat the rich foods and other foods that were not good for them. (See Later, Daniel further demonstrated his courage by advising two kings of interpretations the Lord had revealed to him, Daniel, of manifestations which the kings had received, manifestations which portended evil for them. Daniel told the first king that he would lose his mind, and become like a beast of the field, eating grass as an ox. He told the second king that he would be cut down from the pinnacle of power. (See   So advising these absolute monarchs evidenced great courage in this young man Daniel.He evidenced superb courage of another kind when, in defiance of the king’s edict, he chose to be thrown into the lions’ den rather than neglect to pray to his Father in Heaven. (See The great virtue of faith was demonstrated by Nephi when as a youth he said:“I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.” This was his response to the commandment the Lord gave through his father, Lehi, that he and his brethren return to Jerusalem to obtain the records from Laban.When his brother Laman failed to persuade Laban to part with the records and he and Lemuel were about to return to their father in the wilderness without them, Nephi said:“As the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.” He then persuaded them to get the gold and silver and other riches they had left in the land of their inheritance and offer them to Laban in exchange for the records. This they did, to no avail.Nephi then said to his complaining brothers, as they urged that they return to their father in the wilderness without the records:“Let us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?” Nephi then, led by the Spirit of the Lord, went in alone and came out with the records.Great was the faith of Nephi.In case some of you Aaronic Priesthood bearers feel that you are too young to assume the responsibility of your calling, consider these quotations from the writings of Mormon:“About the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, … ) and … said unto me: …“When ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and … go to the … hill which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited … the sacred engravings concerning this people. …“Take the plates of Nephi … and … engrave on [them] all the things that ye have observed concerning this people.” These instructions Mormon received when he was but ten years old.Five years later he wrote:“And I, being fifteen years of age … , there began to be a war again between the Nephites and the Lamanites. And notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore the people of Nephi appointed me … the leader of their armies.“Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the Lamanites.”  It would seem that an Aaronic Priesthood bearer inclined to hesitate to perform the duties of his office because of his youth could take courage from the exploits of Mormon.In his youth Joseph Smith, the prophet, exhibited all the noble virtues other boys who became great men have evidenced during their Aaronic Priesthood-age years. He possessed the morality demonstrated by Joseph in Egypt, the courage of Daniel, the faith of Nephi, and the reliability of Mormon.At fourteen years of age, he had the faith to act upon the promise of James: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.” So acting, he received his first vision.Courage and reliability he demonstrated in his reaction to the abuse which followed his telling about that vision.“I soon found,” he wrote, “… that my telling the story had excited a great deal of prejudice against me among professors of religion, and was the cause of great persecution, which continued to increase; and though I was an obscure boy, only between fourteen and fifteen years of age, and my circumstances in life such as to make a boy of no consequence in the world, yet men of high standing would take notice sufficient to excite the public mind against me, and create a bitter persecution; and this was common among all the sects—all united to persecute me. …“It was nevertheless a fact that I had beheld a vision. I have thought since, that I felt much like Paul, when he made his defense before King Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he saw a light, and heard a voice; but still there were but few who believed him; some said he was dishonest, others said he was mad; and he was ridiculed and reviled. But all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it otherwise; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew, and would know to his latest breath, that he had both seen a light and heard a voice speaking unto him, and all the world could not make him think or believe otherwise.“So it was with me. I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; … and I could not deny it.” These great virtues, you young Aaronic Priesthood brothers, are worth following if we would be successful as the great men who have preceded us. I bear my testimony to you that if we will do what these boys did, we will be great men. And I bear that testimony to you in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.I want to say to the brethren in the choir, thanks very much for thrilling us with the wonderful musical numbers you rendered tonight.At one time the First Presidency made this significant statement: “This Church owes its origin, its existence, and its hope for the future to the principle of continuous revelation.” (“Policy Statement of Presidency,”  10 Jan. 1970, p. 12.)Revelation in its broadest sense is defined as “communication from God to man.” Revelation comes from the Lord in many different ways.The first prophet of this dispensation, Joseph Smith, received revelation in almost every way that the Lord communicates his mind and will to man. The first revelation that he received was an actual visitation of our Heavenly Father and His resurrected Son, the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.This first revelation, often referred to as “the First Vision,” had a far-reaching effect. First, it was a flat contradiction of the assumption that revelation had ceased and that God no longer communicated with man. Second, it reaffirmed the truth that man indeed was created in the image and after the likeness of God. Third, it left no doubt and verified that the Father and the Son are two separate and distinct persons, being one only in unity of purpose and of will.The Prophet received communications from heavenly beings. Such is the case of Moroni who revealed to him the existence of the gold plates which were translated into the Book of Mormon. Later came John the Baptist, who restored the Aaronic Priesthood; and Peter, James, and John, who restored the Melchizedek Priesthood; also the beings mentioned in what is usually called the Kirtland Temple vision. (See   As we read the Doctrine and Covenants, we become aware that many of the revelations recorded there were received by the Prophet through the use of the Urim and Thummim. This was the instrument employed by the Prophet in translating the Book of Mormon.The Prophet received divine intelligence by open visions. Such is section 76.  He also received revelation through the inspiration of God operating upon his mind. Indeed, the larger number of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants were received in this manner.As we study the scriptures, we learn of the other different ways in which the Lord communicates with His children here upon the earth. Stephen, who was stoned to death, became filled with the Holy Ghost. He looked up steadfastly into heaven and beheld “Jesus standing on the right hand of God.”  Saul, who was present at the stoning, was active in persecuting Stephen and other followers of Jesus. Later, while on the road to Damascus, he beheld “a light from heaven.“… he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?“And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.” Saul was converted, and changed his ways, and became known as Paul. Later, he was chosen as an apostle and was a faithful follower and disciple of the Savior.Ofttimes messages are conveyed by dreams. Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, had several dreams. He called in his wise men and others to interpret those dreams, but they were unable to do so.Pharaoh had dreamed that he was near a river and that seven head of cattle came up out of the river and fed in the meadow. They were fat, beautiful animals and well fed. Then seven more head came up. They were lean, scrawny, and undernourished; and, falling upon the fat cattle, they devoured them. (See Pharaoh learned that there was a young man who had been unjustly cast into prison. He had been able to interpret the dreams of Pharaoh’s butler and baker. This young man’s name was Joseph. He was one of the twelve sons of Israel. Joseph had been sold by his brothers to the Ishmaelites, who were on their way to Egypt. Joseph was taken from prison; and when Pharaoh related his dreams, Joseph was able to interpret those dreams. He saw that there would be seven years of plenty. They would be followed by seven years of famine. Joseph suggested that, during the abundant years, a surplus be stored to provide for the time of famine that was to follow. Pharaoh was deeply impressed and, having complete confidence in Joseph, appointed him to be in charge of the storing project. Joseph was granted unlimited powers and authority and was second only to Pharaoh in all of Egypt. (See  One of the best examples of the voice of the Lord coming into one’s mind is Enos. Enos was taught well by his father, but being young and immature, he was somewhat rebellious and committed some minor errors. Later he became aware of his misdeeds and the truth of his father’s teachings. He had a great desire to repent, to put his life in order, and to live righteously. Enos enjoyed hunting very much. One day as he went into the forest to hunt, the teachings of his father were strong in his mind. He had an intense desire to be forgiven of his past misdeeds. Kneeling down, he made earnest supplication to the Lord to forgive him. All day he pled in sincere prayer for forgiveness and continued his prayers into the night. Finally, a voice came unto him saying, “Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee.” Also, having concern for his brethren, he prayed for them. While he was thus struggling in the spirit, the voice of the Lord came into his mind, giving him certain assurances. (See While we know that designated leaders of the Church are sustained as prophets, seers, and revelators, and receive revelation in connection with their callings, we might ask, who else can receive revelation? President Brigham Young taught that every individual can receive revelation for himself. (See  sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1941, p. 35.) Parents can receive revelation in connection with rearing their families.It is my firm belief that the bishop of every ward and the president of every stake have the right to receive revelation as to what is best for their ward and stake members. Also, that every person who accepts a calling from the Lord has the right to receive revelation in connection with that calling if he is living righteously so that he is in tune with the Spirit of the Lord.But there is one thing that we must remember and keep clearly in mind. This doctrine was expressed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., many years ago in these words: The Lord has declared that “the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator for the Church … alone has the right to receive revelations for the Church, … or change in any way the existing doctrines of the Church.” No other member has any such right or authority. (“When Are Church Leaders’ Words Entitled to Claim of Scripture?”  31 July 1954, p. 2.)The person that we look to today for revelation is President Spencer W. Kimball. I testify that he does receive revelation from the Lord for the guidance of this Church. May we hearken unto his counsel and have the wisdom and good judgment to follow that counsel, for which I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.