I am seeking for the guidance of the Holy Spirit today. President Kimball, President Tanner, President Romney, President Benson, all of the Brethren of the Twelve, all the other General Authorities, and brothers and sisters, on behalf of the Saints in Japan and Korea, I would like to extend our warm and sincere appreciation for the angelic voices of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. During their recent trip to Japan and Korea, they were magnificently accepted by both members and nonmembers. Their wholehearted appreciation can be seen in the excellent comments of the reviews in some of our most important newspapers. I would like to share these comments.One reviewer wrote: “You could find beauty and the profound sound of completeness or perfection” ( 8 Sept. 1979). Another wrote: “They gave us a taste of the glorious quality and power of music” ( 10 Sept. 1979). And still another wrote: “The choir found its way to the depths of our hearts, leaving us with the most indescribable sense of beauty and feeling.” ( 11 Sept. 1979). The president of Chukyo Television, a major sponsor for the trip and of course he is a nonmember, said that the eyes of the choir members were so beautiful and pure that he and his associates were left deeply touched. As our beloved prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball, has told us before, “As we incline our hearts to our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, we hear a symphony of sweet music sung by heavenly voices proclaiming the gospel of peace” ( May 1974, p. 46).Brothers and sisters, today I would also like to express my appreciation to the many missionaries who have come to our land and to the Land of Morning Calm. When I see their wonderful works, my heart turns to their parents who sent them and to those who are giving great sacrifices now that their sons and daughters may go on missions. I met a mother who was driving a taxi in this city as a part-time job so she could send her son on his mission. She spoke very proudly of her son, who was on his mission serving his Father in Heaven.May I share with you a beautiful missionary experience I encountered recently? I saw a miracle performed by one of your missionary sons who so dearly loved an investigator. I met this gentleman at a special fireside. He said, “I appreciate very much the young Mormon missionary who taught me the most important thing in life and gave me happiness. Sometime I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to the parents who taught him to so live the gospel.” With tears in his eyes, and as he was holding my hands, he said, “Oh, Elder Kikuchi, I thank our Heavenly Father for this glorious gospel,” and then he related the following story:“One day eight years ago, on my way home from work, I was hit by a hit-and-run driver. For eleven days I was unconscious, and for two years I was in a hospital. When I was finally released from the hospital, my wife had left me and had taken the children with her. We had had a fine family life before the accident, but my life became a total wreck. I was lonesome and depressed, for I had lost my most precious possession—my family. I attempted suicide many times. My only living came from welfare. I was emotionally and physically exhausted; I had become a living vegetable. I couldn’t walk, so I would transport myself by rolling over on the floor and crawling on all fours.“One evening I went to the hospital to see my doctor for the final results of a series of operations. He told me there was no hope for recovery. Though I had expected him to say so, it was still very shocking for me. All was lost. As I approached a railway bridge on my return from the doctor’s, I wept to see my own face in the wet reflection on the pavement. It was a pitiful sight.”Brothers and sisters, just when he was about to jump in front of the oncoming train, he met one of your missionary sons.It reminds me that the Savior said, “I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and are known of mine”  “My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me” Cottage meetings began immediately. In them, Mr. Sugiyama learned that the gospel is true, that Jesus Christ is our Savior, Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and the true church of God has been restored in this last dispensation.As usual, missionaries invited him to church; however, because he couldn’t walk, he said he wouldn’t be able to come. But on the morning of the Sabbath, he awoke early and bravely headed for the church. Though it was close, it took him nearly three hours to traverse the distance between his home and the closest station to the Yokohama chapel. The Yokohama chapel is situated high upon a hill. From the station to the church it took him almost an hour, although ordinarily it would take a person only five minutes. He would cling to the wall, then fall down, only to struggle again to his feet. He finally reached the chapel where the sacrament was in progress. The missionaries had never expected him to come to church. But Brother Sugiyama felt the pure love of God from the missionaries and members and felt himself drawn to it.The Savior said, “A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you” Shortly afterward, Brother Sugiyama followed the Lord’s commandment by becoming baptized.The Lord said: “Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God” The morning following his baptism, he woke up bright and early. He stretched his legs out in preparation to roll over as usual. But this time, brothers and sisters, something was different. He felt strength in his legs, and his whole body surged with power. He sat up and gradually, eventually, stood on his feet. He hadn’t stood in years without other supports. He walked away that morning! He found that his body had been made whole.Said the Savior to a similar one who had been healed by faith, “Thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace” Brother Sugiyama said, “Love hath made me whole, and I will go in peace in the Lord’s way.” Brothers and sisters, miracles are not the only evidences of the true Church of God, but we can learn much from the miracle performed by the Lord through a great young Mormon missionary who loved his investigator so much.Love precedes the miracle. Love is a process; it is not a program. The love of Christ can overcome any of the worries of our lives and heal any human affliction. To all my friends wherever they may be, let us come unto Jesus and “be born of water and of the Spirit”  For as the Lord said, “Whosoever believeth on my words, them will I visit with the manifestation of my Spirit; and they shall be born of me, even of water and of the Spirit” Oh, how I appreciate my own missionaries who taught me the most glorious message that we can hear. Elder Law and Elder Porter, I thank you. Oh, how many lives have been touched by missionaries like them? Oh, may we continue to send great missionaries from every nation as our prophet has asked us to do. And may we members of this true Church have enough courage to stand before the world to share this great message of the everlasting gospel, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, with “every nation, kindred, tongue, and people”  Brothers and sisters, we must be “the light of the world”  There, someone is waiting for you.I bear you my testimony of the divinity of this gospel. I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the whole world. There is no other name under heaven whereby we might be saved (see  Only through Jesus of Nazareth can we be saved.I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that the Book of Mormon contains the true word of God. This Church is true. I know that President Spencer W. Kimball—a modern Job—is a living prophet of God today. I love him with all my heart and sustain him with all my soul. In the name of our Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.We have an International Mission in the Church, over which Elder Carlos Asay presides. It cares for all the members of the Church who live outside the boundaries of regularly established stakes and missions. This includes the families who live in far-distant countries away from the centers of the Church. These families generally are on assignment with the government or with the military, or work for international corporations.Typical of these is a family down in the Indian Ocean on the island of Réunion. There is a family of eight living in Benghazi, Libya. Another family of five lives in Karachi, Pakistan. For these and many other families there is no organized unit of the Church. They have to teach their own children.Many of these families regularly conduct “church” services. Actually they are “home” services for their family. The mother may gather her small children about her and hold Primary. In this case she serves as the president of the Primary, the counselor, the teacher—and always the janitor. If the family has priesthood-age sons, all the regular priesthood offices somehow merge into one—the father—as he teaches them their duties and ministers to his family.Actually, where the Church is fully organized, priesthood and auxiliary leaders are striving to have all parents teach their children anyway.Often these distant families receive only a few basic materials from the Church. We now have available an excellent basic lesson manual for the men and boys and one for the mothers and daughters, a manual for small children, and a very fine basic manual,  Generally these families receive the Church periodicals and have access to the family home evening manual, and, most important, the standard works of the Church. Activities are planned and centered around their families. In spite of limited materials, if the  teach their children the gospel, these homes may be as blessed as any in the Church.The things that are essential to these homes are essential in every home. In fact, living away from the organized Church  even be a blessing, because family members draw closer together and because they cannot delegate to the Church things that a father and mother should do wherever they live in the world.The Lord organized the family unit in the beginning. He intended that the home be the center of learning—that the father and mother be teachers. He has given counsel that applies whether the family lives within or without the boundaries of an organized unit of the Church. I cite but a few of the scores of verses:“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord” “The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. … I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth” “But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another” “Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it” The Lord fixed families to give parents more influence on children than all other agencies combined. There is safety in this arrangement. It provides  the privilege, the awesome privilege, of molding the life and character of a child, even though outside agencies have influence.Parenthood imposes a singular responsibility. Not only must parents put good things into the minds of children, we must keep bad things out. That is why we have been cautioned against the unrestricted invasion of our homes by the media. While some agencies that have influence on our children are good, some are not. Parental vigilance should be constant. Safeguard your children against those who seek to destroy them.How would you pass the test, parents, if your family was isolated from the Church and  had to supply all religious training? Have you become so dependent on others that you do little or nothing at home? Tell me, how much of the  would your children know, if all they knew is what they had been taught at home? Ponder that. I repeat, how much of the gospel would  children know if all they knew is what they had been taught at home? Remember, the Church exists  Parents, the divine charge to teach has never been changed. Do not abdicate your duty.We have been counseled to become self-reliant and independent temporally. It is as important spiritually! Suppose conditions changed. Suppose you could not receive all the services to which you have become accustomed. Suppose that much more responsibility were placed on your shoulders to care for the spiritual welfare of your family. Surely you cannot study the scriptures without knowing that perilous times are coming. Will you be unaffected?Prepare now! Take steps now to strengthen your family. Spend time together. Establish and maintain family traditions that build happy memories. Maintain a discipline with fair rules and regulations. Express unconditional love to one another through word and act. Develop within each one self-esteem and self-respect by loving and believing in him and having him belong. Provide security that children need. These are the values of which life is made. Establish these, and then we won’t need to worry about the frills that too often concern us.As prophetic events unfold, one thing is certain: we will need to be more self-reliant. We will all need to teach more within the walls of our own homes. In the Book of Mormon we find some models:“I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father”  No doubt Nephi was taught the things of the Spirit—his writings reveal that. He probably was taught practical matters as well, for he was a very resourceful man. Today that son is fortunate whose father teaches him somewhat in  his learning.Enos, son of Jacob, was another who esteemed his father:“I, Enos, knowing my father that he was a just man—for he taught me … in the nurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it. …“Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul” His life of service pivoted on this great spiritual experience. This experience occurred because of the words of his father. These are great models. They are good examples of the power of parental teaching. One thing is essential. Parents and children must spend time together.Some few of us may receive public acclaim for our deeds. Most of us will live out our lives in comparative anonymity. This need not matter. Serve your fellowman. Love and teach your children. Then one day we will merit a tribute from them, which in the eternal plan will mean more than fame or wealth: “I … [was] born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.