The most unique feature of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is that it is governed by the Savior, through the promptings and direction of the Spirit.Those called to serve will prayerfully seek the inspiration of the Spirit to supplement and even go before their own natural abilities. Whenever the Church is upon the earth, there is always this reference to the Spirit as a guide. This is true, no matter what the background of the leaders might be.Two classic examples of this are Paul, the great New Testament prophet, and Brigham Young, the second president of the Church. Paul was a Pharisee and a pupil of Gamaliel. In addition to this, he was a member of the Sanhedrin. If anyone could approach his work with the credentials of an intellectual and a scholar, he could. Yet after his conversion, he was very careful to draw a distinction between these two approaches. In his letter to the Corinthians, he said:“Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.“Which things also we speak, not in the words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual.” (See Brigham Young was a pragmatist, level-headed and down-to-earth. A glazier by trade, he became the second president of the Church after the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He led the Saints into a trackless waste and kept them from perishing until they forged a new life by making the desert blossom as the rose (see  He recognized the practical and sensible aspects of religious life and service to God; yet from this down-to-earth, practical prophet come these words:“The eye, the ear, the hand, all the senses may be deceived, but the Spirit of God cannot be deceived; and when inspired with that Spirit, the whole man is filled with knowledge, he can see with a spiritual eye, and he knows that which is beyond the power of man to controvert” ( 16:46).We learn from these two great prophets that there is need to go beyond the word and find the power and strength that can come from the Spirit.When we speak of the Spirit, we refer to the gift of the Holy Ghost. While the light of Christ enlightens all who come into the world, the spirit of the Holy Ghost is something more. The Holy Ghost is the third member of the Godhead; a personage of spirit, he speaks not for himself, but testifies to all that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and conveys to man the mind and will of the Lord (see  He has a sanctifying and cleansing influence upon the souls of men and is the source of spiritual gifts. Just as Ephesians tells us that there is one Lord, one faith, and one baptism (see  so this gift of the Holy Ghost can only come in one way. Only the right authority is acceptable for baptism and conferring the gift of the Holy Ghost, and this was made clear when Paul traveled to Ephesus and rebaptized some who had not been baptized with the right authority and then conferred upon them the Holy Ghost (see While the Spirit of the Holy Ghost will witness to a person that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gift of the Holy Ghost comes only after a person has been baptized into the Church. It can be identified with feelings of peace and assurance to the prayerful and honest seeker for truth, and thus the scripture:“Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart”  “Therefore, you shall feel that it is right” Some think that our ultimate judgment and reward will be based on how many laws and commandments we keep and how many we do not keep. While in a sense this is true, it misses the broader and spiritual purpose for keeping the commandments. When I was younger, I lived to play basketball. It was on my mind constantly. I spent countless hours practicing. Gradually I began to go through the moves automatically, without thinking about them. Physically and mentally I had become conditioned to do certain things by instinct. I had practiced them until they became natural to me.In like manner, we keep the commandments and teachings of the gospel in order to condition us spiritually. It is not a matter of how many laws we keep and how many we do not keep. We keep the commandments because they are the laws that govern the Spirit. The Spirit in turn will sanctify us, condition us spiritually, and eventually prepare us to live in the kingdom where God is. Hence the scripture: “They who are not sanctified through the law which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom”  The laws that govern the Spirit are nothing more nor less than the laws that govern the Church. In addition, there is also an outpouring of the Spirit for those loyal to and willing to uphold the prophet and others who have been called to preside.That the Spirit can and should have power in our lives and that we can have definite and measurable experiences associated with the Spirit is quite clear. One need only refer to the great variety of gifts of the Spirit promised to all who live the laws and commandments of Christ.We should seek the Spirit through the prayer of faith and through keeping the commandments, including partaking of the sacrament worthily, so that we might “have his Spirit to be with [us]” The sons of Mosiah, for instance, were fasting and praying in preparation for their mission to the Lamanites; they wanted a portion of the Spirit of the Lord to go with them and abide with them. The answer is recorded in this verse: “And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his Spirit, and said unto them: Be comforted. And they were comforted”  Would you not be comforted if the Lord, by his Spirit, gave you the same experience?The prophet Alma says: “And now behold, I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God? Have ye received his image in your countenances? Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?” Alma was making sure that the members of the Church had not just received the gift of the Holy Ghost, but also had truly received the sanctifying and cleansing power of that great Spirit. He said the way you can tell is when you become refreshed spiritually, as if you had been born anew. He said that the feelings and attitudes of your heart will be truly changed for the good. That your very appearance will begin to take upon itself the image of Christ.What a great and powerful friend is this gift of the Holy Ghost! Certainly all who will turn to the Savior and abide by his laws will be healed by this Spirit (see  They will have the mind of Christ (see  they will be “partakers of the divine nature”  they will begin to have the image of Christ in their countenances (see  Truly the gospel comes, as Paul said, not only in word, “but also in power,” the sanctifying, cleansing, soul-enlarging power of the Holy Spirit After the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Brigham Young had a dream in which Joseph Smith appeared to him with the following advice: “Tell the brethren to keep their hearts open to conviction, so that when the Holy Ghost comes to them, their hearts will be ready to receive it. They can tell the Spirit of the Lord from all other spirits; it will whisper peace and joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred, strife and all evil from their hearts; and their whole desire will be to do good, bring forth righteousness and build up the kingdom of God. Tell the brethren if they will follow the spirit of the Lord they will go right. Be sure to tell the people to keep the Spirit,” he said. (Elden J. Watson, comp.,  Salt Lake City, 1971, pp. 529–30.)And these final words from the Doctrine and Covenants: “Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will” And thus we have the end result of the workings of the Spirit, to bring us face to face with Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer.Loyalty to the prophets and prayerful obedience to the word of God will bring the power of the Spirit. The enlarging influence of the Spirit will sanctify us, will condition us spiritually, and prepare us to see Him face to face and converse as one speaketh to another, and to live in his kingdom, even the celestial kingdom.May the Lord help us to reach beyond the words of life and to capture this great spirit, I pray. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Some weeks ago an unhappy mother, who had been left alone to care for herself and her three young children, indicated that she was not attending church anymore: “Why should I? I have lived in the same apartment now for more than four months and not one person has come to call on us.”She seemed taken aback and surprised when, instead of saying, “I will have the bishop contact you promptly,” I asked, “How many people have you visited since you moved into your new neighborhood?”Many of us set up roadblocks to progress and contribute to our own unhappiness while we wait for others to seek us out and offer help. Negative attitudes lived with today cause stagnation, misery, and bitterness tomorrow. It is unproductive for those who should be anxiously engaged in seeking the abundant life to nurse personal hurts. We are all God’s children. If we love Him, we will feed His sheep wherever they may be found, without regard as to our own personal plight or situation. Often we can best feed others when we are hungry ourselves or not completely comfortable in the fold that we presently occupy. Very often those who are hungry, helpless, and cold can best be rescued by those who have been through the same exposures. Marking time or stalling should not be indulged in by the weak, weary, uncertain, and unrecognized. Instead, there is a healing power as we use our energy in action, in service, and in lifting others.It was Booker T. Washington who wisely stated, “Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying to succeed.” ( comp. by John P. Bradley and others, Chicago: J. G. Ferguson Publishing Company, 1969, p. 698.) Victories in life come through our ability to work around and over the obstacles that cross our path. We grow stronger as we climb our own mountains.“The brightest crowns that are worn in heaven have been tried, and smelted, polished and glorified through the furnace of tribulation” according to Thomas Carlyle ( Emerson Roy West, comp., Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1968, p. 312).Let me share four basic contributing factors which might prevent our personal progress and church activity: (1) the constant nursing of personal hurts, (2) yielding to the sorrow of tragedy and grief, (3) being fettered with the habits and mistakes of misconduct, (4) letting fears inhibit progress.Let us ponder these enemies of eternal progress and seek ways of gathering the courage to cast them aside. Each of us should daily resolve that with God’s help we will not allow careless words from others to shape our destiny or control our daily course. How tragic it is to see, on occasion, a life of usefulness lost because we have allowed an unkind comment to cause a wound or hurt. We let the injury become an open sore and fester rather than treat it with prompt skill and maturity. Some try to get even with their offenders by dropping out of life’s race. How weak, how damaging, how self-restricting is the often used statement, “I’ll never go back as long as is there!” On occasion some of us seem to stand on the sidelines waiting to be hurt, offended, or ignored. We listen for careless words from others and remember the unsaid  and read into the said or unsaid words a totally unintended message.One of the finest basketball players of all time was asked what had contributed the most to his outstanding success. His answer was, “I learned to play in pain. Although injuries, bruises, and bumps came, I never allowed myself the luxury of slowing down or quitting.”The greatest teacher and leader also showed the world an example of proper conduct when He was the victim of unkind words and cruel deeds. He simply said, “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do” During his earthly mission Jesus made every confrontation a learning experience, including those that would be destructive or cause hurt and dissatisfaction. He was never rebellious, never ashamed; always long-suffering, patient, kingly; and never deterred in being about His Father’s business. He, too, proved His greatness when His personal pain and suffering were the most intense. Hurting words and unkind deeds never kept Him from reaching His goals. No one can meet life in all its fulness without experiencing hurt, pain, and suffering.The wise person will avoid the flood of bitterness and hatred that can be caused by the waters of hurt. He will constantly pursue the Savior’s paths without stopping at this roadblock caused by apparent or real injustices. It is up to us to go forward and not confuse or confound ourselves. Those of us who cannot forgive and forget break the bridges over which we must pass. Too often we allow incidents to contribute to our stagnation when we permit ourselves to feel ignored, unwanted, or unworthy. How damaging sympathy is when it is self-administered. How refreshing it is to meet people who don’t have time to be offended. Certainly what we are is more important than what we have or what is said of us. Too often the tragic loss of a child, husband, wife, mother, father, or other loved ones becomes a turning point in life. Some yield to the damaging thought that if there be an all-wise and loving Eternal Father, how could He allow this to happen to me and mine? We allow the heartache to break the band and strengthening tie to Him who has promised to see us successfully through our Gethsemanes. Some of us in our moments of greatest despair turn away in bitterness from the arm of strength, comfort, and peace. Sometimes in our darkest hours we lose sight of the light as we dwell upon the unanswerable questions: “Why does God permit this to happen to me or to our family? What have we done to deserve this?”This incident was shared by Lucile F. Johnson of Orem, Utah: “There was an attractive lady whose company everyone sought and enjoyed. She was a delight to be around because she seemed to love life and people to the fullest. One day I said to her, ‘You are such a joy to all of us. What is your secret? Can you tell me?’“‘Yes,’ she answered. ‘One word changed my life.’“‘And what was that word?’ I queried.“‘Malignant!’ Startled, I heard this explanation: ‘The doctor said that word to me and told me I had a limited time to live. I had a choice. I could make everyone miserable or I could try to make others happy. On my knees I realized that I had one day at a time just as everyone else has. I was able to see things I had never seen. My husband, my children, each person took on a beauty you can’t believe. I know that life is a gift whether it be a day or a year and I intend to enjoy my gift to the maximum.’”Whether the works of God are manifest in healings or in the exhibition of courage and acceptance by those challenged must be left to the ultimate wisdom of Him who comprehendeth all things. How refreshing and strengthening are the lives of those who push upward and onward despite tragedies and griefs. A friend of mine who only in recent months has made giant steps toward purposeful living and complete activity in the Church shared the following: “I can tell you as one who has had many years of experience and practice that it is much easier to criticize individuals and knock the establishment than it is to change oneself and recognize the real causes for one’s own inactivity and negativism.”Change is hard. Rather than going through the struggle to overcome a bad habit or rectify a mistake, some of us choose to make excuses for inactivity. Progress comes as we are able to give up something for something we want more. Honesty with oneself and setting of desirable but attainable goals day by day can determine the paths we follow. One might make a list of goals and then a price list for each goal. One day at a time the price of change can be paid. The cost will then not be overwhelming.The Lord has promised that he will forgive and remember no more when the process of repentance is complete. If the Lord will do that for us, why should we not so do for ourselves? Mistakes can be forgiven. Habits can be changed. One more roadblock to progress can be removed.In contrast to this process, how discouraging it is to witness someone who lives with damaging habits and who resists taking personal steps toward better self-management. William James said, “That which holds the attention determines the action” ( Emerson Roy West, comp. Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1968, p. 5). The truly repentant will put their mistakes behind, learn from them, and turn their attention from them to actions that bring progress and growth. How comforting it is to know that God will take us by the hand and lift us to new levels of attitude and achievement if we will but let Him. What a sweet, personal victory it is to recognize misdirection in one’s own life and to pay the price that then lets us walk in His paths. Fear is another roadblock which may stop our eternal progress. It keeps us from attempting anything significant because we are afraid of failure or rejection. We won’t accept opportunities for service in the Church or in the community because we might make a mistake.“For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind”  What a tragedy it is in our lives when we are afraid to try, afraid to make decisions, afraid to trust the Lord, or even afraid to make an error in judgment. Oh, that we could remember the great teaching of the Savior to Peter when fear caused him to fail to walk and to even sink.“But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.“And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.“And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.“But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.“And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.“And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.“But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.“And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?” Fears in our lives can be conquered if we will but have faith and move forward with purpose.To reemphasize: the constant nursing of personal hurts is a crutch for those who would move with hesitation, if at all. Yielding to the pains of tragedy and grief deters self-development and takes away the opportunity for triumph over trying obstacles. Being fettered with habits and mistakes of misconduct relegates a person to being a victim of his errors. Letting fears inhibit progress is but another evidence of one’s unwillingness to try because of the fear of failure. Roadblocks to eternal progress are cast aside when resolves are made that no man needs to walk alone. It is a happy day when we come to know that with God’s help nothing is impossible for us.May we strive for that day and knowledge, I humbly pray. God does live. He does hear and answer our prayers. To these truths I leave my testimony and witness. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.