The sweep of our sisterhood touches me as I talk from Temple Square across the English-speaking world to you women who love the Lord and who have gathered together to learn more about him and his will for us as women. I remember our many non–English-speaking sisters and yearn for the time when we can all join together under these circumstances.May such a time as this fill your hearts, lift your spirits, give you hope. May it help you sort your thinking and fortify you so you will always find yourself on the Lord’s side in a world bent upon pulling women in another direction.For some time now there has been an enormous fuss made about women, some of it made by women in honor of themselves. Now I’m not sure that girls are any safer on the streets or women any happier in their lives or any of us more effective in our service—or even better-looking—because of all this furor, but it has been an interesting season.Though this is the day of women, I pay tribute to the men who lead us, who bless us, who pray over us and with us, and who would gladly raise their voices more frequently in our defense, if only we would let them raise their voices!It is exciting to be an active participant as a woman in all that is being done for us by the Brethren. Latter-day Saint women are not only protected, they are privileged; and life is full of incredible and unique promise for us.Brethren, thank you. We love you. We marvel at all you are and all you do. We honor the priesthood of God which you bear and appreciate the errand you are on.We women want to help, not hinder.It is about being a help, sisters, and prepared helpers, that I would speak to you now.Paul wrote to the Thessalonians something that expresses my feelings for all of you wherever and whoever you are:“But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children:“So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were dear unto us” What we say tonight, then, we say in all gentleness but not without strong feeling. The Women in this Church need to be prepared—personally prepared—first, to stem the tide of error inundating the world, threatening families, short-circuiting the power of individuals. Second, though we have great men to lead us, we need to know for ourselves what is error and what is truth so that we can make valid value judgments. So much depends on this. Third, we need to grow and develop so that we are prepared to contribute. We each have a mighty errand to do. It may or may not include marriage and motherhood at this time, but ours is the errand of influence.Remember, sisters, a woman doesn’t have to stay in the house to be in the home. Neither does a woman need to leave her home to extend her influence to others. We will, however, be more effective on our errand if we have studied the gospel, developed our skills, and reached up and beyond our own first associations. The sooner we start, the sooner we’ll soar. Growth is gradual. Time is so swift—crickets call, then Christmas comes. One day a little girl—next day a woman. “Sunrise, sunset,” the nostalgic song reminds us. And so it is. Tonight you’re twelve and then suddenly you’re in a holding pattern just past forty. There is no time for delay in personal improvement. Proper preparation for life doesn’t happen overnight.Recently I stood with Sister Camilla Kimball while President Kimball greeted the little children at an area conference. A young mother-to-be rushed toward us and threw her arms around Sister Kimball, hugged her, and wept. Then as she gained her composure she said, “Oh Sister Kimball, you are so beautiful, so serene, and so supportive to your husband.” Fresh tears accompanied this outburst and then she said, “Oh, Sister Kimball, my husband says this is how I’m supposed to be.”Sister Kimball, who is all that the woman said and more, spoke quietly to her, “It will come. We all have to learn through experience.”The young mother-to-be went away comforted. The beginning wasn’t the end! She lifted her head in hope, as I believe we all must do, to move steadily forward in ultimate faith that the end can be better than the beginning, wherever we may start.I don’t deny the struggle—it is the essence of Eden; but personal progress is what this life is all about. We must begin at once to work our plan of life, deciding to whom and to what we will give our fullest attention, our highest loyalty, our deepest commitment.And which leaders we will follow.I plead for a stir among the sisters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for intelligent and prayerful preparation and performance that is in line with what our Heavenly Father wants for us personally and what he needs for us to do as women. He lives! He loves us. He knows our needs and aches. He cares. He will help us. Keep close to the Lord. He has established this Church and called a prophet to lead us. Keep close to the prophet. President Kimball, as you listen, know that we love you and pray for you. We miss you—but your special helper is a blessing to us all.President Kimball spoke at general conference in April about people and plateaus and the critical need for each of us to grow, to get off constricting ground and move forward.Was anybody listening?Individually, are we moving forward as is our rapidly growing church?Or would we have drowned in Noah’s day or been caught polishing the golden calf with Aaron’s people?Our lack of individual progress can impede the Savior’s work.I don’t want to seem simplistic, sisters, but we need to move!Like our brethren, we too have a mighty errand of our own. It requires our growth, our preparation, our constant reaching out to learn from the lessons of life, from our leaders, from the Lord.There is so much to do.There are many who don’t have what we have, who don’t know what we know. So may we be gentle and affectionately desirous of others as we impart, not only the gospel of Jesus Christ, but our own souls to those who have need of us.It is, after all, the only cause grand enough for woman’s precious energies. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.President Tanner, President Romney, President Benson, and brethren of the General Authorities who are here with us, may I add my appreciation for this blessed opportunity to be together again as women throughout the world, gathered together to hear words of encouragement and direction. And to each of you, my dear sisters, I extend my greetings and my love.I am humble as I sense my awesome responsibility this evening. I have prayed fervently to know what I might say. The Spirit has directed my thoughts toward children—specifically, little girls.Just a few weeks ago I answered the telephone in my office. A tear-filled voice on the other end of the line asked, “Grandma?” Above the sobs I recognized my daughter’s voice and joyfully exclaimed, “Really?” “Yes,” she said. “It’s a girl!”Words cannot express feelings at such a sacred moment. My heart almost burst with gratitude to a loving Father who had answered many prayers. And then as I witnessed our daughter mothering that sweet spirit who had so recently left the presence of our Father in Heaven, I almost felt our Savior’s arms around me and I knew of his love for our daughter in entrusting this new spirit to her tender and loving care. My soul filled with thanksgiving. I am sure all you grandmothers will agree with me that it’s not easy to be humble, though, on these blessed occasions, especially when you are the grandmother of the world’s most beautiful children.Since that memorable moment, my thoughts have turned, perhaps even more than ever before, to wondering what kind of women our three little granddaughters and other little girls will someday become, and what kind of a world they will find themselves in when they do become women.A large part of the answer lies in our hands—yours and mine and those of other women of the world. In these days of tumult, confusion, and anxiety, we must remember that our girls too are being tested at this time of vibrant challenge and promise and opportunity. Teaching and rearing them is a sacred trust and a solemn responsibility.Louisa May Alcott refers to girls as “little women” and we recognize them as potential leaders in our Father’s kingdom. They first come into our lives as helpless babies with whom we quickly develop strong heart-ties. It begins with tying booties and baby bonnets. A few years later we find ourselves tying pigtails and pinafore bows. Whimsically, I’ve reflected that in their teenage years, they pick up the pattern by tying up the telephone, the bathroom, the family car, and our purse strings. Lovingly, we accept and enjoy those years that glide swiftly into that time when we must cut the apron strings so that marriage knots may be tied. Usually it isn’t long until we become grandmothers and experience another renewal of the ties that bind. Then the cycle begins all over again.The universal experience of childhood is marked by common needs and development. Although it occupies only a small fraction of the life span, it has been proved that these are the most crucial years in determining and influencing the course of adult life. How important it is that in these crucial years we tighten the foundation knots of prayer, testimony, and the joy of righteous living. How often we should remember that the Lord has encouraged us to “be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great” If from our girls of today there will proceed that which is great, and I believe this to be true, then in their crucial years we must help them understand that they are daughters of a loving Father, handmaidens of the Lord, and heirs to the joyous blessing of being a woman.One of the most beautiful examples of this relationship is found in the book of Luke in the verses known as “Mary’s Song.” Mary had recently received the blessed visitation of the angel who revealed her special role in the “good news and glad tidings” our Father in Heaven had planned for us. She was to be the mother of Jesus Christ, our Savior! The scriptures record only a small portion of the dialogue between Mary and her heavenly visitor. But Mary’s expressions of joy to her cousin Elisabeth tell us that the blessed plan of salvation was unfolded and she understood the role she would play. Her loving response was, “My soul doth magnify the Lord,“And my spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior” At that moment Mary committed her life to bringing our Savior into mortality, and we as Latter-day Saints know that he had already committed his life unto death for us. When we as women and our girls as daughters of our Heavenly Father fully understand this, then the gospel of Jesus Christ becomes not a religion of habit but one of commitment. This commitment can then release us from the bondage of fear and confusion and hesitation in which we sometimes find ourselves in these difficult times. We can only be as strong as we must be when we are truly committed.While as women we are expected to lead the way, often children point the way. An example of this is the little girl, who when asked by an evangelist which church she belonged to, answered proudly, “I’m a Mormon.” “Well,” he said, “and if you did not choose to be a Mormon, what would you be?” Shyly but with conviction she replied, “I’d be ashamed!”Look to tomorrow. I recently heard it expressed in three potent words: Think tomorrow today! Tomorrow comes marching forward on the feet of little children. The strength or weakness of tomorrow lies in the hands of our children. A girl is the only thing God has created that can become a woman.And what a glorious blessing it is to be a woman, regardless of our assignment, our calling, our physical conditions of age and circumstance, and despite those who seek to divert us from the role for which we were designed. Our beloved Prophet Spencer W. Kimball expressed it in this way:“It is a great blessing to be a woman in the Church today. The opposition against righteousness has never been greater, but the opportunities for fulfilling our highest potential have also never been greater” (“Introduction,” Deseret Book, 1979, p. 2).Regardless of our age or own assignment in life, our charge as women today is to set an example and lead the way for our precious “little women” girls, committed, as never before, to joyously accepting our role and our responsibility as women. May we move forward and upward as daughters of God toward the great fulfillment of our lives, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.