The Psalmist asked the question, “How shall we sing the Lord’s song in a strange land?”  In every age, including our own, the Lord’s message has been brought into lands that were strange to the messengers. They have sought to establish a Zion where the Lord is God.Since early in the history of our dispensation, through the successive revelations now recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord has sought to establish his church, “giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope!” We affirm that this process yet continues, and we know that as we reach out into all the world, as the Lord has prompted us and commanded us to do, we will see special challenges before us in establishing the Lord’s church. Hundreds of millions of our Father’s children face poverty and illiteracy and other problems—both temporal and spiritual—that are almost beyond our comprehension. Of such people President Kimball stated: “Give these people to us and we’ll open their eyes to a vision of eternity and show them how to reach up to the stars” (Dec. 1974).We recognize that the process of establishing the Lord’s church encompasses much more than baptizing people. In the first chapter of Alma in the Book of Mormon we find an instructive sequence of events outlining the way by which the Lord’s church is established. Beginning with verse 26 we read:“The priests left their labor to impart the word of God unto the people. … And when the priest had imparted unto them the word of God they all returned again diligently unto their labors; … and thus they were all equal, and they did all labor, every man according to his strength.“And they did impart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they did not wear costly apparel, yet they were neat and comely” Let us take note of this process:First, the doctrines are taught (see Second, members esteem each other as themselves (see Third, they all labor; they work and earn that which they receive (see Fourth, they impart of their substance to the less fortunate; they serve one another (see Fifth, they discipline their own appetites while at the same time caring appropriately for their own needs (see Now, listen to the declaration of the prophet:“And thus they did establish the affairs of the church. …“And now, because of the steadiness of the church they began to be exceeding rich, having abundance of all things whatsoever they stood in need” This mighty change happened, not because the people were given things, but rather because they were taught and began to help themselves and to care for those who were less fortunate. It was when they gave of themselves in the Lord’s way that their circumstances began to improve.This process of establishing the Church can apply anywhere. However, in areas of the world where human and other resources are inadequate, priesthood leaders may be able to use some technical know-how in helping their members become self-reliant. This support is currently being given in a splendid way by a dedicated group of skilled technical and professional people whose principal ministry is to foster practical, Christlike service. They are called as welfare services missionaries. There are at present over seven hundred of these missionaries serving in almost sixty missions throughout the world, helping local leaders to establish the Church.An important function of welfare services missionaries is to assist local priesthood leaders in teaching the fundamental principles of welfare. They may also, under priesthood direction, teach members how to improve their manner of living. Although we do not have storehouses and production projects everywhere, we must have basic welfare principles taught and applied even in the smallest of branches. At the heart of welfare in the Church are six gospel principles: love, service, work, self-reliance, stewardship, and consecration (which encompasses sacrifice). These principles undergird the other fundamentals of welfare, which are the law of the fast, quorum service and Relief Society compassionate service, personal and family preparedness, and functioning welfare services committees.Participating in the activities of basic welfare gives members the opportunity to incorporate fundamental gospel principles into their lives.For example, by living the law of the fast members learn of love and selflessness. As home teachers help a family mend a fence, or as Relief Society sisters prepare food for a neighbor who is ill, they experience the meaning of service. In seeking to be prepared individually and as a family, members practice self-reliance and work. The local welfare services committee coordinates the Church’s role in these aspects of basic welfare.Welfare services missionaries serve under the direction of their mission presidents as resource persons to local priesthood leaders responsible for moving the work forward. Utilizing their experiences and training, welfare services missionaries, as resources to leaders and members, can identify ways in which the members can take better care of themselves. These leaders in turn help members to begin practicing a gospel-centered way of life.Welfare services missionaries are, therefore, not just teaching and following welfare principles; they are an important part of the process of establishing the Church.Elder L. Tom Perry last month returned from Tonga and reported as follows:“I was also extremely impressed with the welfare services missionary couples in Tonga. I am enclosing a picture of Brother and Sister Duane C. Thorn standing behind some sheet-metal ovens he has constructed. Brother Thorn has made over a hundred of these, and his wife has been teaching the women how to use them over a regular bonfire to bake bread. It’s the first time many of these families have had a facility to do any baking. He has also made large tubs for them to do their washing in to improve their sanitation.“Another couple, by the name of Spencer, has done an outstanding job in improving the harvest of the agricultural farms of Tonga. Brother Spencer invented and taught the local people how to use several machines, including a tapa-cloth machine which has saved them many hours of difficult labor. This machine also caught the eye of the king. He has become a very close personal friend of the king. In fact, for the next month he traveled with the king and his party to all of the islands on an agricultural fair where he was a guest of the king.“Both of these couples will be returning home within a month.”Brother Spencer has taught others so that there may be a continuation of these skills. All help given must be in the Lord’s own way under priesthood direction as we saw happening in Alma’s day. Ours is a practical religion based upon the gospel of work that elevates and prospers both the body and the spirit.The work of the welfare services missionaries is an ongoing work. Let me therefore briefly review some important information:First, those who are eligible to serve as welfare services missionaries include couples and single women who meet the regular missionary qualifications.Second, they must have professional and vocational skills and experience in dealing with practical challenges. Social workers, farmers, career counselors, skilled tradesmen, home economists, and nurses are some examples of the types of skilled missionaries that are needed.Third, bishops or stake presidents should have qualified couples or single sisters attach to their regular missionary application a brief outline of their education, their work experience, and their hobbies or other talents. You should know that there is currently a need for couples with ability in languages other than English. At present, the greatest needs are for Spanish speakers.Fourth, to obtain welfare services missionaries, priesthood leaders identify temporal problems among their members which cannot be handled through local resources. They set forth the specific helps they desire from welfare services missionaries and then consult with their Regional Representative and mission president. The requests will be forwarded to the Missionary Department as approved by the General Authority Executive Administrator. Missionaries with specific skills are then assigned to meet the identified needs.Fifth, the Church’s system of welfare is designed to develop character and to help people help themselves. The Church must be constantly aware of the need to build and lift people temporally and spiritually. Paradoxically, the most successful way to assist someone in need is by leading them into the service of others.A key figure in ensuring that this happens is the General Authority Executive Administrator. It is his responsibility to regularly review the progress of welfare services missionary efforts with Regional Representatives representing the stake presidents, mission presidents, and with the other leaders who function in the temporal offices in the area council. In this council meeting, welfare services missionary work can be incorporated into the area master plan for welfare services. This planned, unified approach will insure order and constancy as we proceed to establish the Church.We have received numerous testimonials from priesthood leaders who have experienced the benefits of this valuable resource. A branch president writes:“I know that with time I will not need welfare missionaries because with each day I will become more and more self-reliant. I just have to seek the guidance of the Lord and depend on him.“I know that the principles of welfare have always existed. It’s just that we have not given them their rightful importance” (Angel Majia Ruiz, Huacho Branch president, Peru Lima North Mission).Furthermore, the enthusiasm and confidence the local leaders have gained has naturally had an effect on missionary work. As members experience the benefits of fundamental welfare activities in their lives, they are moved to want to share their joys with others.Recently in the small village of Ubon, Thailand, a member family by the name of Tan was beset with what seemed to be insurmountable problems. The father had lost his job, they had no money, the children were sick and malnourished. They were being forced to remove their humble home from the government land upon which it was built, and they had no place to go.At this point a fine priesthood leader, who had been using welfare services missionaries as a resource, stepped in and averted what could otherwise have been a tragic situation. Under his guidance and with the assistance of all the branch members, a piece of land was obtained, and the Tan family home was dismantled, transported, and rebuilt. Brother Tan began farming the land and started a family produce business which is now flourishing. Some hard work, dedication, and love from local leaders and members, aided by the suggestions of welfare services missionaries, caused a miracle for one family and a great learning and growing experience for a whole branch.To you couples and single sisters who may in the future be desirous of helping, we say:Prepare yourselves professionally.Study a language. It will be beneficial even if you are not called where the language is spoken.Work and get your personal affairs in order so that you are in a position to be considered.To you bishops and stake presidents presiding over those who are worthy and able to serve, we say:Invite them to prepare and enlist their talents as welfare services missionaries in this great effort of establishing the Church.Increase your efforts in interviewing and recommending those who can be called by the prophet of God into the Lord’s service.To Executive Administrators, stake presidents and mission presidents, and temporal leaders in areas where the needs warrant, we say:Be aware of the valuable resource we have in welfare services missionaries.Identify those temporal challenges blocking the spiritual prosperity of your members, and systematically proceed to help them find ways in which they can overcome such deterrents and enjoy a full and Christlike life.May the Lord bless us all as we seek to establish his church. May we learn how to sing the Lord’s song in strange lands and help the less fortunate “open their eyes to a vision of eternity and show them how to reach up to the stars” (Spencer W. Kimball, Dec. 1974), I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I pray my remarks this morning will find lodging in the hearts of everyone who hears them. The subject I have chosen is “Blessing the One.” Welfare services, by their nature, embrace much of everyday life—this is why President Kimball has defined welfare services as the gospel in action. Since the gospel is a resource upon which the individual draws in striving to achieve his or her exaltation, welfare services must needs be such a resource.As you may know, the Presiding Bishopric has the responsibility to manage many of the temporal affairs of the Church. This includes overseeing the operation of the welfare services Storehouse Resource System. While this embraces a host of activities and responsibilities, I believe the most important responsibility we have in this regard is to make sure that ultimately this vast enterprise focuses on each individual, the giver and the receiver, in order that the individual is blessed, lifted, and inspired.The more aware I become of the welfare efforts of governments and other organizations, many of which have the highest purposes, the more awed I am by the Lord’s method of blessing those in need by helping them help themselves. I am proud and gratified as I see you local priesthood and Relief Society leaders from many parts of the world focus your attention through the welfare services program on the individual. Many examples come to mind, repeated in ward after ward throughout the Church. In my mind’s eye I see a bishop in a sensitive and confidential interview with a welfare recipient, a quorum president visiting the home of a member just laid off work, a visiting teacher bringing a meal for a young family whose mother has been hospitalized, and a stake high councilor encouraging a beautiful Lamanite youth to stay with the placement program in spite of the many difficulties experienced during the first month at a new high school.May I share with you two true stories of how helping in the Lord’s own way has blessed the one—how the spirit of love and charity which permeates the Church’s welfare services system really does ultimately lift the individual.Richard’s life, before joining the Church, was one of welfare checks, food stamps, social worker interviews, public health clinics, and unpaid medical and utility bills. Neither Richard nor his wife knew how to handle even small amounts of money. Richard experienced a marvelous conversion to the Church but came in with many personal deficiencies. He had great difficulty in holding a job. He was referred by his bishop to Deseret Industries for employment. For the first time in his adult life, he began earning a regular paycheck. As Richard worked at Deseret Industries, he began to develop pride in himself. He no longer humped over when he spoke. His wife and children began to develop respect for him as patriarch in the home.The Deseret Industries rehabilitation coordinator worked closely with Richard as did his bishop. A checking account was established in his name. A workable family budget was outlined and agreed to. Doctor bills that had remained unpaid for over a year were paid. A two-and-a-half-month-old electric bill was paid the day the power was to be shut off. All other bills were slowly brought up to date and handled properly.Richard’s life was changing. He felt self-worth and direction. Early in July of this year, the general manager of a large laundry-linen business came to the Deseret Industries. He was looking for good employees. Richard was to be given the chance to interview for a job. He expressed great anxiety about the interview. Richard and the Deseret Industries rehabilitation coordinator practiced interviewing over and over. Richard passed the interview and was hired. A new life-style was about to begin.When Richard left Deseret Industries, a luncheon was held in his honor, during which the following was recorded:“Brothers and sisters, I have good news and bad news. The good news is that I have found a job in the labor market which will pay me more money than I have ever made before. For the first time in my life, I will be able to provide for my family in the way our Heavenly Father wants me to. I am progressing, which is what this life is all about. The bad news, or I should say the sad news, is that I will be leaving all of you. I love you from the bottom of my heart. I am grateful for what Deseret Industries has done for me. I pray that you will all find the happiness I have experienced in working at Deseret Industries. I especially want to thank both Jim Wilson and my bishop who have done so much for me. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.”Richard surpassed his own and his new employer’s expectations. He has recently been promoted and given a handsome increase in salary. A soul, a human life, has been blessed—probably nothing else could have done what a bishop and a Deseret Industries rehabilitation coordinator did.And now another example. [Some of the actual names and places have been changed.] In March of 1978, a letter was received by the Wilson family, who live in Idaho. It began, “Dear Brother and Sister Wilson, Just a short note to see how things are going with you and let you know how things are with me.”This letter was written by the Wilsons’ Lamanite foster daughter, Celia Red Horse, whom they had not heard from for several years.The seeds of their relationship had been planted in 1965 in a talk delivered by Elder Spencer W. Kimball, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. Brother Wilson, who was a bishop at the time of Elder Kimball’s address, was impressed with the words of a scripture from the Book of Mormon: “I will soften the hearts of the Gentiles that they shall be like unto a father to them”  As the meeting continued, Bishop Wilson was further touched in his heart and determined within himself to help with the Indian student placement program. In the fall of 1967, a wonderful new experience came into the lives of the Wilson family when sixteen-year-old Celia Red Horse came to live with them for the school year.To quote the Wilsons: “We enjoyed Celia and had some special times with her. She was a good student and very obedient. When she went home to the reservation, we communicated with her for some time, but gradually, as the years passed, there was less communication.”After Celia left, the Wilsons had several other young Lamanites in their home over the years, all of whom they came to love, appreciate, and have a special relationship with. By 1978, when Celia’s letter arrived, eleven years had passed. The Wilson family had grown to include ten children of their own, and they had not participated in the placement program for two years. May I continue to read from Celia’s letter:“Right now, I am working as a secretary. I am saving a lot of my pay so that I can buy clothes for my daughter before she can go on placement.“I guess I haven’t seen you or your family for about ten years. I know everyone has changed quite a bit. I imagine the kids are all grown up and gone. …“I have one little girl. Her name is Margaret. She is seven and will be going on placement this fall. She wants to go. I have told her all about the program. She has never been away from home in all her seven years.“Do you remember my brother David? Well, he has already been on his mission, and now he is at BYU. He is coming back this summer to baptize Margaret. He came home in December for the Christmas vacation. Then, while he was back for Christmas, he blessed my brother’s little girl. Before that, he baptized two others in our family.“How old are Joy, Curt, Rhonda, Gary, and Jenny? I remember them all—Joy and her allergy, Curt and his accordion, Rhonda and her ballet lessons, and how Gary used to swim like a little frog in the swimming pool. I can still remember Jenny and her red hair. All of these kids are probably teenagers or older. How are they all doing?”Celia goes on to mention that the problems of modern youth having to do with alcohol and drugs have infiltrated the reservation as seriously as they have the inner city. She indicates deep gratitude for the Church and its teachings, which have such a profound effect in keeping young people from some of the mistakes of their peers. She also indicates that through the teachings of the Church her family is closer and more secure. She tells us that most of her little brothers and sisters are going to be involved in the placement program this year, and then she goes on to ask:“Are you still participating in the placement program?“Please write and tell me all the news. …“I think I better close here. Take care, and may the Lord bless you in all your righteous endeavors. Love. …”As Brother and Sister Wilson read this lovely letter from Celia, Brother Wilson vaguely remembered a portion of the address he had heard Elder Kimball deliver twelve years earlier. “Elder Kimball had said that success would not be felt in the first generation, but real success would come in the second, third, or fourth,” Brother Wilson recalled. “When this statement came back to me, I felt that we should invite Celia’s daughter to come into our home, for this would be the second generation of the same family in the same home.”An inquiry was made through the Indian placement program as to whether it would be possible for Margaret to live with the Wilsons. When Celia found out this was possible, “she immediately called us and with tears said how pleased she would be to have Margaret come to the home where she had once lived,” Brother Wilson said.Margaret spent the 1978–79 school year with the Wilson family and, like her mother before her, brought as much to the Wilson family as she received from them.“She is very generous with others,” Sister Wilson said. “If someone comments on something that she has and says, ‘I like that,’ then Margaret will give it to him. Each of our children receives an allowance, and since Margaret is considered one of the children she also gets an allowance.“Last Christmas we talked about doing something as a family to help somebody else. Margaret had saved up quite a bit of her allowance, which she gave to the family project.“She helps out with household chores just like any other member of the family. She and Angela, who is also eight, share kitchen duties one night a week. They also have other responsibilities in the home.”Brother Wilson recalled that when Margaret first came into their home, she was very quiet and did not express herself very well. Her mother, Celia, had asked the Wilsons to help Margaret learn how to pray and express her feelings.Now “she asks if she can ask the blessing on the food or if she can offer prayers,” Brother Wilson reports. “And when she prays, the rest of us really listen because she has some very good thoughts.”As the end of the school year approached, the Wilsons made arrangements for Celia to visit with them in Idaho, and a special reunion time was held with her at that time as she came back to her foster home and stayed with her daughter and her foster family. She took Margaret home with her and, in discussion with the Wilson family, decided that Margaret should remain home with her family this year and attend school on the reservation.We see exemplified in this experience the blessings associated with giving and receiving. These sentiments were expressed so well by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in a special meeting of stake presidencies on 2 October 1936:“The real long-term objective of the welfare plan is the building of character in the members of the Church, givers and receivers, rescuing all that is finest down deep inside of them, and bringing to flower and fruitage the latent richness of the spirit, which after all is the mission and purpose and reason for being of this Church.”It is my prayer, my brothers and sisters, that each of us as leaders and parents will constantly strive to lift, ennoble, and bless the one through the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.