I speak to that member of the Church who struggles with a test of faith that could touch any one of us.If I can take the arm of that one, and steady him when his faith is tottering, I do not hesitate to impose upon the rest of you for just a few minutes.At times someone has come to me, their faith shaken by alleged wrongdoing of some leader in the Church.For instance, one young man was being constantly ridiculed by his co-workers for his activity in the Church. They claimed to know of a bishop who had cheated someone in business, or a stake president who had misrepresented something on a contract, or a mission president who had borrowed money, giving false information.Or, they told of a bishop who had discriminated against one member, refusing to give a temple recommend, but had shown favoritism by signing a recommend for another whose unworthiness was widely known.Such incidents as these, which supposedly involve Church leaders, are described as evidence that the gospel is not true, that the Church is not divinely inspired, or that it is being misled.He had no satisfactory answer to their charges. He felt defenseless and foolish and was being drawn to join them in their criticism of the Church.Did he believe all of these stories? Well, he could not be sure. There must be something to some of them.If you also face such a test of faith, consider the questions he was asked:Have you ever, in your life, attended any Church meeting—priesthood meeting, sacrament meeting, Relief Society, Sunday School, a conference or fireside, a seminary class, a temple session, or any meeting sponsored by the Church—where any encouragement or authorization was given to be dishonest, to cheat in business, or take advantage of anyone?He answered that he had not.The next question:Have you read, or do you know of anything in the literature of the Church, in the scriptures themselves, in lesson manuals, in Church magazines or books, in Church publications of any kind, which contains any consent to lie, or to steal, to misrepresent, to defraud, to be immoral or vulgar, to profane, to be brutal, or to abuse any living soul?Again he said, after thoughtful consideration, that he had not.Have you ever been encouraged in a training session, a leadership meeting, or an interview to transgress or misbehave in any way? Have you ever been encouraged to be extreme or unreasonable or intemperate?He had not.You are inside the Church where you can see at close hand the conduct of bishops or Relief Society presidents, of high councilors, stake presidents or General Authorities. Could such conduct be described as being typical of them?He thought it could not.You are active and have held positions in the Church. Surely, you would have noticed if the Church promoted any of these things in any way.Yes, he thought he would have noticed.Why then, I asked him, when you hear reports of this kind, should you feel that the Church is to blame?There is no provision in the teachings or doctrines of the Church for any member to be dishonest, or immoral, or irresponsible, or even careless.Have you not been taught all of your life, that if a member of the Church, particularly one in high position, is unworthy in any way, he acts against the standards of the Church? He is not in harmony with the teachings, the doctrines, or with the leadership of the Church.Why, then, should your faith be shaken by this account, or that, of some alleged misconduct—most of them misrepresented or untrue?There are those who assume if someone is depressed—the Church must have caused it. If there is a divorce—somehow the Church is to blame. And on and on.When something is published about someone in major difficulty, if he is a member of the Church, that fact is generally included as essential information.But have you ever read of a robbery, a theft, an embezzlement, a murder or suicide, that listed the guilty party as a Baptist, or a Methodist, or a Catholic? I think you have not.Why, then, do they find it worth the mention when the unfortunate person is a Mormon?Really, that is something of a backhanded compliment. It is an acknowledgment that members of the Church are supposed to know better, and we’re supposed to do better; and when we don’t, they point at the Church.Be careful of those who promote controversy and contention, “for verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me,” saith the Lord This next question concerns those who are shaking your faith.Are they really being fair? Could it be that they point to alleged misconduct, insinuating that the Church is responsible, to excuse themselves from living the high standards of the Church or to cover some failure to do so? You think about that—carefully.Now, does anyone holding a responsible position in the Church ever act unworthily?The answer: of course, it happens. It is an exception, but it happens.When we call a man to be a stake president or a bishop, for instance, we say, in effect:“Here is a congregation. You are to preside over them. They are under constant temptation, and you are to see that they win that battle. Govern them in such a way that they can succeed. Devote yourself unselfishly to this cause.“And, incidentally, while you preside, you are not excused from your own trials and temptations. They will, in fact, be increased because you are a leader. Win your own battle as best you can.”If a leader does conduct himself unworthily, his actions fly against everything the Church stands for, and he is subject to release.It has even been our sad responsibility, on some few occasions, to excommunicate leaders from the Church who have been guilty of very serious illegal or immoral conduct.That should increase, not shake, your faith in the Church, or of a nonmember toward it.When I was a student, nothing tried my faith more than the falling away of the Three Witnesses. If ever there was a temptation, for the sake of appearances, for the Church to compromise Church principles, that was the time. It was not done; and therefore, what had shaken my faith, one day was transformed into an anchor to hold it steady.When you hear stories, be wise. Unless you are in all the interviews, and hear all the evidence, you are not in a position to really know. Be careful, lest you jump to a confusion.Unless you are a participant and have full knowledge, better:“Judge not, that ye be not judged.“For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged.” Years ago I learned a lesson about judging.I was a city councilman in Brigham City and was also on the stake high council. Late one night I was returning home from a high council meeting, pondering on what had happened there.There was a red light and a siren. I was given a ticket for going forty-five miles an hour in a thirty-mile-an-hour zone. I accepted the ticket without protest, for I had not been paying attention.The city judge was always in his office very early, and I went to get the matter settled before going to teach seminary the next day.The judge had recently made a request for some new furniture. It rested with me, as a councilman, to approve it and sign the voucher.He looked at my ticket and smiled, saying, “There have, on occasions, been exceptions made.”I told him that in view of my position he was obliged to treat me like any other citizen. Reluctantly he consented.“The going rate is a dollar a mile. That will be fifteen dollars.”I paid the fine.Two nights later Councilman Bundy reported, in a meeting of the city council, that he had fired a policeman. When the mayor asked the cause, he was told, and I quote: “Well, he was always arresting the wrong people.”Later Councilman Bundy explained that there had been vandalism in the city. Late at night someone had gone down Forest Street in a recreation vehicle and snapped off all the young trees. There had been damage in the cemetery also.Where were the police? He found they were hiding behind signboards waiting for some unwary motorist.Councilman Bundy had tried over a period of weeks to get them to patrol the city at night. One young officer just did not seem to learn, and so he had been dismissed.Here then, was a man who gave a traffic ticket to a city councilman. Two days later he was dismissed. And the cause, stated in a city council meeting, with several delegations as witness: “He was always arresting the wrong people.”Do you think he could be convinced that I did not cause him to be fired?Had I known of it, I may have delayed or prevented his dismissal, just for appearances.Appearances, however, convicted me of unworthy use of influence.Another example: Years ago in one of our Church schools, a teacher was summarily dismissed. The general explanation given did not satisfy his colleagues.A delegation went to the office of the principal and demanded that he be reinstated. The principal refused. He offered no further explanation.The delegation concluded, therefore, that the principal had acted for “political reasons,” for he was known to have some deep philosophical differences with that teacher.The teacher (and this is frequently the case) took the part of a mistreated soul. His actions encouraged his colleagues in their protest.The truth, known to the members of the Church Board of Education, was that the teacher had been dismissed for some very serious misconduct. Should all be made public, it would be doubtful that he could be reemployed as a teacher.The principal, however, had some faith. If things were not noised about, the teacher might, through repentance and restitution, make himself again worthy to teach—perhaps even in the Church school system.This principal generously took much criticism, even abuse, over a long period of time. He felt that the good of a family and the rehabilitation of a teacher was more important than his own professional reputation for the moment.I was inspired by his example. It has been repeated a thousand times or more in the wards and stakes of the Church.Often actions of bishops and stake presidents and others are misread by people who are not in a position to know the full truth.Neither the bishop nor the member he is judging is obliged to confide in us. The bishop must keep confidences.When all is said and done, in most cases, it is clearly none of our business anyway.Often someone will not go to his bishop with a problem. He wants to see a General Authority instead. He says the bishop will talk—for what about the time when someone in the ward went to him and soon everyone knew about the problem?Follow these cases through, as I have done, and you will probably find that, first, the member confided in her neighbor who didn’t know what to counsel her. Then she talked it over with her best friend, and then her sister, and received conflicting advice. Finally, her husband was told by the man he rides with that they’d better see the bishop.Indeed, it was noised about, but not by the bishop. Bishops keep confidences.John, the Apostle, counseled:“Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment” Now then, stand steady. Keep your faith. I bear witness that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. God lives and directs this work. The Church is on the right course. It is on schedule. And I bear witness that it is righteously led by a prophet of God.Things that now are stumbling blocks may, one day soon, be stepping-stones for you.But do not expect to see the day when this Church, or those in it, will be free from resistance, criticism, even persecution. That will never be.Just remember:“Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.“Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I bring you greetings from the Saints and missionaries in the British Isles, especially those in the England London Mission where my dear companion, Mary, and I are currently serving.What a joy it is to speak as a missionary and a special witness of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in my calling as a Seventy in this great restored church. Every missionary and every member of the Church has the right—yes, even the obligation—to bear testimony of Jesus Christ to his friends, family, and neighbors in mildness and in meekness.Every person in the world at some point in his eternal progression is one day going to have to come to the moment of truth when he must answer the question, “What think ye of Christ?” Think of that. At one point in our eternal progression, each one of us is going to have to answer the question, Who is Jesus Christ? We are told that every eye shall see, every ear shall hear, and every knee shall bow, every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord (see  “When all men shall stand to be judged of him, then shall they confess that he is God”  see also  and What think ye of Christ? Whom say ye that I am?“While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,“Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, The Son of David.”Jesus answered them, “If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?“And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any man from that day forth ask him any more questions.” On another occasion the people answered Jesus, saying, “Who is this Son of man? …“But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him.” Still yet another time Jesus asked his disciples, saying, “Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?” (Or stated another way, whom do men say that I the Son of God am?)“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter [the senior member of the Twelve Apostles] answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.” Jesus conversed on another occasion with a woman in Samaria:“The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. …“The woman saith unto him [further], I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.“Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.” What think ye of Christ and whom say ye that he is? Many Christians profess to follow Jesus Christ but do not know him:“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” Many profess to be Christians and yet do not believe that Jesus Christ is the literal Son of God, indeed, the eldest son of God the Father. Men are willing to follow some of his teachings but do not recognize the divine, eternal purpose and the significance of his life to all mankind. “What think ye of Christ?” and “Whom say ye that I am?” These were questions asked by Jesus to make men think, so that he might teach them who he was, that they might use their own free agency, come to their own conclusions and commitments, follow him, and gain a testimony that he is the Son of God, our Redeemer.Using the sacred scriptures we can know Jesus Christ. He is more than a great teacher; he is the Messiah. He was willing to lay down his life for us; he is the only one who could, as these scriptures testify:“Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved” “I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment—that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord” “Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me” Who is he? From the scriptures we learn more about him: First, the Light of Christ is in all men. It leads men to accept the gospel and gain a testimony of Him. It is because of the Light of Christ that all men know good from evil—the guidance of a conscience. (See Jesus Christ is a god; he is the Jehovah of the Old Testament and the Savior of the New Testament (see Jesus Christ dwelt in the heavens with his Father, and we dwelt with them as spirit children of God the Father (see Jesus Christ presented his Father’s eternal plan, that plan of which we are all part. We come to this earth to undergo testing for a probationary period and to have opposition in all things. Through the eternal principle of free agency, we are free to choose liberty and eternal life and return to God’s presence if we live righteous lives; or to choose captivity and spiritual death. (See Jesus Christ is the creator of all things on earth, under the direction of his Father (see   “The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world” Jesus Christ came to this earth, born of Mary, a mortal mother. His Father was Almighty God. (See Jesus Christ was baptized by immersion by John the Baptist, and the Holy Ghost was manifest in the “Spirit like a dove descending upon him.” And his Father spoke: “Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” Jesus Christ organized his church and selected twelve apostles, and also prophets, seventies, and evangelists (see   Jesus Christ’s message is unique. He stands between us and his Father; he is the Mediator (see   Through him shall all mankind be saved and by him shall all mankind be saved.Jesus Christ is the Redeemer, our Savior; only he with a mortal mother and an immortal Father could fulfill the Atonement and die to save all mankind. He did so of his own free will and choice (see   Jesus Christ was resurrected and appeared to many after his resurrection (see   He taught us the physical characteristics of a resurrected being and told us that we could follow his example and that we would be able to progress and be like him.Jesus Christ’s ascension into heaven before the eyes of his disciples was accompanied by the promise that in like manner he would come again (see    The second coming of Jesus Christ is nigh at hand, as the signs of the Second Coming are being fulfilled this very day.Jesus Christ appeared with his Father and restored the same organization he established during his ministry through Joseph Smith the Prophet in these latter days. In addition to the Bible, the Book of Mormon was revealed to the world as another witness to testify of his divine calling and ministry.Jesus Christ leads and guides his church today through revelation to a prophet, President Spencer W. Kimball, and his counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles, the same organization that he established when he was here on earth (see  Jesus Christ’s admonition to “come … follow me” and “follow thou me” is the challenge that he gave to each of us (see   He lived in the preexistence in the spirit world; he dwelt with God his Father. He is the Son, Jesus Christ. We took a mortal body upon us. We’ll have opposition; we will taste death and be resurrected because of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. He will be granted a degree of glory. We can have that same degree of glory—the celestial kingdom; if we are worthy. We can dwell once again with God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ throughout all the eternities.There are many who will hear this message for the first time today. Ponder it carefully. Contact a member or a missionary of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If you have heard the message before and the Spirit bears witness of its truthfulness and touches your heart, come back to activity and fellowship in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If you are a young man or young woman or retired couple and the Spirit bears witness to you that you should go on a mission to declare this message to the world, make your commitment today. My mother and father went on a mission after retirement and are now the example for two sons, a daughter, eleven grandsons, and four great-grandchildren.During this Easter season, this is my personal witness and testimony. Oh, if I had the voice and trump of an angel that I could say to all mankind that He is risen and that he lives; that he is the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the Father, the promised Messiah, our Redeemer and Savior; that he came into this world to teach the gospel by example. His divine mission is directed to you and me to come unto him and he will lead us into life eternal. Salvation is by and through his name    and this I say in the holy name of our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, amen.