Beloved brethren and sisters, this has been a glorious conference. We are grateful to all who have taken part in any way. My heart has rejoiced, and my thoughts have been inspired to turn to many things, as what has been said and sung has deeply touched me.Now, my brothers and sisters, it seems clear to me, indeed, this impression weighs upon me—that the Church is at a point in its growth and maturity when we are at last ready to move forward in a major way. Some decisions have been made and others pending, which will clear the way, organizationally. But the basic decisions needed for us to move forward, as a people, must be made by the individual members of the Church. The major strides which must be made by the Church will follow upon the major strides to be made by us as individuals.We have paused on some plateaus long enough. Let us resume our journey forward and upward. Let us quietly put an end to our reluctance to reach out to others—whether in our own families, wards, or neighborhoods. We have been diverted, at times, from fundamentals on which we must now focus in order to move forward as a person or as a people.Seemingly small efforts in the life of each member could do so much to move the Church forward as never before. Think, brothers and sisters, what would happen if each active family were to bring another family or individual into the Church before next April conference: We would be joined by several hundred thousand new members of the Church. Imagine, if only one additional mature couple were to be called on a full-time mission from each ward—our missionary force would go from 27,500 to over 40,000! Contemplate the results if each family were to assist—between now and next April conference—an inactive family or individual into full activity. How we would revel in the association of those tens of thousands!Think of the blessings here and on the other side of the veil if each holder of a temple recommend were to do just one more endowment this next year! And how would our nonmember neighbors and friends feel if we were each to do just one more quiet act of Christian service for them before October conference—regardless of whether or not they are interested in the Church!Imagine how much richer our family life would be if our spouses and children were to receive a few more minutes of individual attention each month!Are we ready, brothers and sisters, to do these seemingly small things out of which great blessings will proceed? I think we are. I believe the Lord’s church is on the verge of an upsurge in spirituality. Our individual spiritual growth is the key to major numerical growth in the kingdom. The Church is ready to accomplish these things now which it could not have done just a few years ago. So also we are ready as members. If you will accept my counsel, you will come to feel that there is a readiness in our people which must be put to work.Let us not shrink from the next steps in our spiritual growth, brothers and sisters, by holding back, or side-stepping our fresh opportunities for service to our families and our fellowmen.Let us trust the Lord and take the next steps in our individual lives. He has promised us that he will be our tender tutor, measuring what we are ready for:“And ye cannot bear all things now; nevertheless, be of good cheer, for I will lead you along” He will not ask us to bear more than we can bear nor thrust upon us that for which we are not yet ready. But likewise, we must not tarry too long when we are ready to move on.It seems to me that basically there are two major causes for the holding back which we see in the Church: First, sin which results in disinterest or immobilization and guilt; and second, the reluctance of good members of the Church to stretch just a little bit more in the service, instead of being too slow to see the power of their example or too shy about letting their light shine. It is time for us all to take those seemingly small steps forward which will, when compounded, mean major progress for the Church!The monumental challenge we face is to provide trained leadership for our fast-growing membership and to help that membership to keep clean from the world in which we must live.The encroachment of the world into our lives is threatening. How hard it seems to many people to live  the world but not  the world.Our constant prayer and our major efforts are to see that the members are sanctified through their righteousness. We urge our people to “stand in holy places” There may be some who have a general feeling of uneasiness because of world conditions and the lengthening shadows of evil. But the Lord said: “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear” The gospel gives purpose to our lives. It is the way to happiness. Our success, individually and as a church, will largely be determined by how faithfully we focus on living the gospel in the home.Only as we see clearly the responsibilities of each individual and the role of families and the home can we properly understand that the priesthood quorums and the auxiliary organizations, even wards and stakes, exist primarily to help members live the gospel in the home. However, church programs should always support and never detract from gospel-centered family activities.Members should achieve personal and family preparedness, assisting and strengthening their own family members and others temporally and spiritually in the Lord’s way.All should work together to make home a place where we love to be, a place of listening and learning, a place where each member can find mutual love, support, appreciation, and encouragement.Let us “be of good cheer”  for the Lord will, as he has promised, lead us along and show us the way. He will help us as we decide from day to day on the allocation of our time and talent. We will move faster if we hurry less. We will make more real progress if we focus on the fundamentals. We will even come to know more as we serve more, for as we learn to  more we are made ready to  more (see  and The Lord has helped to make us ready for major progress. Let us now go to and make the world ready for his coming!Brothers and sisters, I’ve been so very much impressed with the sermons of the Brethren as they have poured out their souls to us in teaching us the principles of the gospel. They have been well defined and well explained.I want to bring to your attention one or two of the scriptures that have been mentioned in the services already. For instance, this one:“When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?“And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.“He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?“And Simon Peter answered [for the others] and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.” That is our message. That is what we are attempting to take to the world, to see that every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, and every individual under heaven hears that message in a real, important way.Now, continuing the quotation: “Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven [has revealed it to thee].“And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.” And that explains to us the importance of our role as we go out into the world. We teach them the truths, teach them how to follow the truths, and promise them these blessings which we have the authority from heaven to give to them.I want to quote a few lines from Peter as he neared his demise:“Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me.“Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance.“For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.“For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.“And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.“We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:“Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.” And now another, more modern scripture I should like to add:“And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!”—and this you have heard many times during this conference from various serious-minded Brethren with a strong testimony.“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—“That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God.” One more scripture: “But now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him” And then one other:“So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs.“He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep.“He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.” Now the Lord has said that to every man, woman, and child in this congregation and in this world who has joined his church: “Lovest thou me?” Then show me! Show me: feed my sheep. We have in many of the lands of this world large, fast-growing, delightful, wonderful congregations; and we say to you again that the Lord is saying, “Feed my sheep.” And he knows whether we are or not. He knows all the time. We don’t need to put it into words; we don’t need to express that for ourselves. All we need to do is to feed his sheep.I might mention one more thing that Brother Haight mentioned—teaching the gospel by the adults. I think it is a matter that we have overlooked. We have rather forgotten, we older people, who have been retired and who have found an easy place to go with our camping outfit and with our other opportunities. We have found an easy way to satisfy our own thoughts and our own consciences that the work must go on—we will send our boys, we say.I like the thought very much that Elder Haight mentioned: All of us have this responsibility. Not all of us are able, but many, many of us are. Hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saints are able to preach the gospel in a careful, splendid way as the gospel is given to them.The Lord has promised us that he would give us all the help and the strength and the inspiration that we need, and so all he says is, “Feed my sheep; feed my lambs.” And there are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of little sheep, little lambs that need feeding in all these countries in the world.So we ask you again to do the things that we have suggested, brothers and sisters, such as keeping up your homes and writing in your journals. Every person should keep a journal and every person  keep a journal. It should be an enlightening one and should bring great blessings and happiness to the families. If there is anyone here who isn’t doing so, will you repent today and change—change your life?Now I should close. I wish to say to you, my brothers and sisters, we love you devotedly, we love you all, we appreciate all you do, and we just hope you will do more.We ask our Heavenly Father to give you power to extend your blessings to the people in your neighborhood who need them and to take the gospel to areas in the world that need those blessings now. We ask our Heavenly Father to be with you between now and our next conference and from then on. And we say again, Jesus is our light; he is our stay; he is our Savior and he lives; and we bear this testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I speak to that member of the Church who struggles with a test of faith that could touch any one of us.If I can take the arm of that one, and steady him when his faith is tottering, I do not hesitate to impose upon the rest of you for just a few minutes.At times someone has come to me, their faith shaken by alleged wrongdoing of some leader in the Church.For instance, one young man was being constantly ridiculed by his co-workers for his activity in the Church. They claimed to know of a bishop who had cheated someone in business, or a stake president who had misrepresented something on a contract, or a mission president who had borrowed money, giving false information.Or, they told of a bishop who had discriminated against one member, refusing to give a temple recommend, but had shown favoritism by signing a recommend for another whose unworthiness was widely known.Such incidents as these, which supposedly involve Church leaders, are described as evidence that the gospel is not true, that the Church is not divinely inspired, or that it is being misled.He had no satisfactory answer to their charges. He felt defenseless and foolish and was being drawn to join them in their criticism of the Church.Did he believe all of these stories? Well, he could not be sure. There must be something to some of them.If you also face such a test of faith, consider the questions he was asked:Have you ever, in your life, attended any Church meeting—priesthood meeting, sacrament meeting, Relief Society, Sunday School, a conference or fireside, a seminary class, a temple session, or any meeting sponsored by the Church—where any encouragement or authorization was given to be dishonest, to cheat in business, or take advantage of anyone?He answered that he had not.The next question:Have you read, or do you know of anything in the literature of the Church, in the scriptures themselves, in lesson manuals, in Church magazines or books, in Church publications of any kind, which contains any consent to lie, or to steal, to misrepresent, to defraud, to be immoral or vulgar, to profane, to be brutal, or to abuse any living soul?Again he said, after thoughtful consideration, that he had not.Have you ever been encouraged in a training session, a leadership meeting, or an interview to transgress or misbehave in any way? Have you ever been encouraged to be extreme or unreasonable or intemperate?He had not.You are inside the Church where you can see at close hand the conduct of bishops or Relief Society presidents, of high councilors, stake presidents or General Authorities. Could such conduct be described as being typical of them?He thought it could not.You are active and have held positions in the Church. Surely, you would have noticed if the Church promoted any of these things in any way.Yes, he thought he would have noticed.Why then, I asked him, when you hear reports of this kind, should you feel that the Church is to blame?There is no provision in the teachings or doctrines of the Church for any member to be dishonest, or immoral, or irresponsible, or even careless.Have you not been taught all of your life, that if a member of the Church, particularly one in high position, is unworthy in any way, he acts against the standards of the Church? He is not in harmony with the teachings, the doctrines, or with the leadership of the Church.Why, then, should your faith be shaken by this account, or that, of some alleged misconduct—most of them misrepresented or untrue?There are those who assume if someone is depressed—the Church must have caused it. If there is a divorce—somehow the Church is to blame. And on and on.When something is published about someone in major difficulty, if he is a member of the Church, that fact is generally included as essential information.But have you ever read of a robbery, a theft, an embezzlement, a murder or suicide, that listed the guilty party as a Baptist, or a Methodist, or a Catholic? I think you have not.Why, then, do they find it worth the mention when the unfortunate person is a Mormon?Really, that is something of a backhanded compliment. It is an acknowledgment that members of the Church are supposed to know better, and we’re supposed to do better; and when we don’t, they point at the Church.Be careful of those who promote controversy and contention, “for verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me,” saith the Lord This next question concerns those who are shaking your faith.Are they really being fair? Could it be that they point to alleged misconduct, insinuating that the Church is responsible, to excuse themselves from living the high standards of the Church or to cover some failure to do so? You think about that—carefully.Now, does anyone holding a responsible position in the Church ever act unworthily?The answer: of course, it happens. It is an exception, but it happens.When we call a man to be a stake president or a bishop, for instance, we say, in effect:“Here is a congregation. You are to preside over them. They are under constant temptation, and you are to see that they win that battle. Govern them in such a way that they can succeed. Devote yourself unselfishly to this cause.“And, incidentally, while you preside, you are not excused from your own trials and temptations. They will, in fact, be increased because you are a leader. Win your own battle as best you can.”If a leader does conduct himself unworthily, his actions fly against everything the Church stands for, and he is subject to release.It has even been our sad responsibility, on some few occasions, to excommunicate leaders from the Church who have been guilty of very serious illegal or immoral conduct.That should increase, not shake, your faith in the Church, or of a nonmember toward it.When I was a student, nothing tried my faith more than the falling away of the Three Witnesses. If ever there was a temptation, for the sake of appearances, for the Church to compromise Church principles, that was the time. It was not done; and therefore, what had shaken my faith, one day was transformed into an anchor to hold it steady.When you hear stories, be wise. Unless you are in all the interviews, and hear all the evidence, you are not in a position to really know. Be careful, lest you jump to a confusion.Unless you are a participant and have full knowledge, better:“Judge not, that ye be not judged.“For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged.” Years ago I learned a lesson about judging.I was a city councilman in Brigham City and was also on the stake high council. Late one night I was returning home from a high council meeting, pondering on what had happened there.There was a red light and a siren. I was given a ticket for going forty-five miles an hour in a thirty-mile-an-hour zone. I accepted the ticket without protest, for I had not been paying attention.The city judge was always in his office very early, and I went to get the matter settled before going to teach seminary the next day.The judge had recently made a request for some new furniture. It rested with me, as a councilman, to approve it and sign the voucher.He looked at my ticket and smiled, saying, “There have, on occasions, been exceptions made.”I told him that in view of my position he was obliged to treat me like any other citizen. Reluctantly he consented.“The going rate is a dollar a mile. That will be fifteen dollars.”I paid the fine.Two nights later Councilman Bundy reported, in a meeting of the city council, that he had fired a policeman. When the mayor asked the cause, he was told, and I quote: “Well, he was always arresting the wrong people.”Later Councilman Bundy explained that there had been vandalism in the city. Late at night someone had gone down Forest Street in a recreation vehicle and snapped off all the young trees. There had been damage in the cemetery also.Where were the police? He found they were hiding behind signboards waiting for some unwary motorist.Councilman Bundy had tried over a period of weeks to get them to patrol the city at night. One young officer just did not seem to learn, and so he had been dismissed.Here then, was a man who gave a traffic ticket to a city councilman. Two days later he was dismissed. And the cause, stated in a city council meeting, with several delegations as witness: “He was always arresting the wrong people.”Do you think he could be convinced that I did not cause him to be fired?Had I known of it, I may have delayed or prevented his dismissal, just for appearances.Appearances, however, convicted me of unworthy use of influence.Another example: Years ago in one of our Church schools, a teacher was summarily dismissed. The general explanation given did not satisfy his colleagues.A delegation went to the office of the principal and demanded that he be reinstated. The principal refused. He offered no further explanation.The delegation concluded, therefore, that the principal had acted for “political reasons,” for he was known to have some deep philosophical differences with that teacher.The teacher (and this is frequently the case) took the part of a mistreated soul. His actions encouraged his colleagues in their protest.The truth, known to the members of the Church Board of Education, was that the teacher had been dismissed for some very serious misconduct. Should all be made public, it would be doubtful that he could be reemployed as a teacher.The principal, however, had some faith. If things were not noised about, the teacher might, through repentance and restitution, make himself again worthy to teach—perhaps even in the Church school system.This principal generously took much criticism, even abuse, over a long period of time. He felt that the good of a family and the rehabilitation of a teacher was more important than his own professional reputation for the moment.I was inspired by his example. It has been repeated a thousand times or more in the wards and stakes of the Church.Often actions of bishops and stake presidents and others are misread by people who are not in a position to know the full truth.Neither the bishop nor the member he is judging is obliged to confide in us. The bishop must keep confidences.When all is said and done, in most cases, it is clearly none of our business anyway.Often someone will not go to his bishop with a problem. He wants to see a General Authority instead. He says the bishop will talk—for what about the time when someone in the ward went to him and soon everyone knew about the problem?Follow these cases through, as I have done, and you will probably find that, first, the member confided in her neighbor who didn’t know what to counsel her. Then she talked it over with her best friend, and then her sister, and received conflicting advice. Finally, her husband was told by the man he rides with that they’d better see the bishop.Indeed, it was noised about, but not by the bishop. Bishops keep confidences.John, the Apostle, counseled:“Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment” Now then, stand steady. Keep your faith. I bear witness that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true. God lives and directs this work. The Church is on the right course. It is on schedule. And I bear witness that it is righteously led by a prophet of God.Things that now are stumbling blocks may, one day soon, be stepping-stones for you.But do not expect to see the day when this Church, or those in it, will be free from resistance, criticism, even persecution. That will never be.Just remember:“Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.“Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.