It’s a blessing to have the sweet companionship of the Relief Society, with their heaven-sent special sensitivities, beside us in this great Samaritan effort.Sister Smith has mentioned priesthood councils. To help in administering Church affairs, priesthood councils are organized at area, region, stake, and ward levels. These councils, in order to be effective, need to represent  Church programs so that there will be a  and  body at all appropriate levels. These councils, properly organized and functioning, assure a unified approach in moving forward the ecclesiastical and temporal work of the Church for the blessing of individuals and families.Using approved guidelines and policies, the area council will annually review and submit for approval plans outlining major objectives for the area.May we give special attention this morning to the important welfare role of these councils as part of the priesthood administration of welfare services.The First Presidency has counseled priesthood leaders to carefully and prayerfully develop a plan that will foster local self-sufficiency of Church units. This is important in light of changing needs, rapid Church growth, the uncertainty of modern times, and the Lord’s commandment to the Church to care for members in need (see You have just heard the lovely lyrics to the song “The Work of Love,” from the Relief Society drama  The visual message and this song bring to my mind the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith:“It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence” and “You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in [you]” ( 4:605).A fundamental reason for organizing the Relief Society was so that the sisters could act together to extend the work of the bishop in caring for the Saints and thus help build the kingdom of God on earth.In the last general conference, President Benson explained a plan whereby Church government is to be strengthened through the operation of priesthood councils (see  May 1979, pp. 86–89).In requesting my participation in this meeting, the First Presidency directed me to explain the Relief Society’s role in the priesthood councils. We believe that Church members, especially Relief Society members, should know new developments that emphasize the importance of the Relief Society’s role in the Church. Although a relatively few Relief Society officers are involved in councils, their influence is far-reaching throughout the Church.So let us consider the councils.The General Welfare Services Committee is one of the principal policy-formulating councils of the Church. The Relief Society General Presidency serves on this committee as well as on its executive committee.Through the organization of the Relief Society, we bring to these meetings a capability to develop approved programs and teach and implement them. We also bring a perspective born of our personal experience and of our communication with Relief Society women worldwide. This is helpful in welfare matters.For example, some time ago a stake Relief Society president serving on a steering committee for a bishops’ storehouse reported to us that the welfare recipients were wasting food because the labels on the products did not have sufficient directions. She cited the pancake mix as a case in point. We, therefore, arranged to have the mix tested, and the pancakes were found to be hard and tasteless. On a second try, the tester followed the directions on the label of a similar commercial preparation calling for the addition of milk and eggs. This test resulted in fluffy, delicious pancakes.We recommended that instructions and simple recipes be added to the labels of all storehouse products. We are informed that the new labeling will soon be completed. This action will benefit all welfare recipients.As we serve on the General Welfare Services Committee we find that we not only  a needed perspective but we  a point of view that helps us shape the Relief Society courses of study to include welfare principles, such as personal and family preparedness, and to raise the level of awareness among women of the importance of the welfare program. We also  an understanding of welfare goals and objectives that helps us direct the wise use of Relief Society resources in support of them.