My brethren and sisters, I pray for inspiration as I speak to young people about prayer, and about the things that happen afterwards.We succeed in the Church, by and large, in teaching our members to pray. Even our little ones are taught to fold their arms and bow their heads, and with whispered coaching from their parents and from brothers and sisters, they soon learn to pray.There is one part of prayer—the answer part—that perhaps, by comparison, we neglect.There are some things about answers to prayer that you can learn when you are very young, and they will be a great protection to you.Many years ago John Burroughs, a naturalist, one summer evening was walking through a crowded park. Above the sounds of city life he heard the song of a bird.He stopped and listened! Those with him had not heard it. He looked around. No one else had noticed it.It bothered him that everyone should miss something so beautiful.He took a coin from his pocket and flipped it into the air. It struck the pavement with a ring, no louder than the song of the bird. Everyone turned; they could hear that!It is difficult to separate from all the sounds of city traffic the song of a bird. But you can hear it. You can hear it plainly if you train yourself to listen for it.One of our sons has always been interested in radio. When he was a little fellow, his Christmas present was a very elementary radio construction set.As he grew, and as we could afford it, and as he could earn it, he received more sophisticated equipment.There have been many times over the years, some very recently, when I have sat with him as he talked with someone in a distant part of the world.I could hear static and interference and catch a word or two, or sometimes several voices at once.Yet he can understand, for he has trained himself to tune out the interference.It is difficult to separate from the confusion of life that quiet voice of inspiration. Unless you attune yourself, you will miss it.Answers to prayers come in a quiet way. The scriptures describe that voice of inspiration as a still, small voice.If you really try, you can learn to respond to that voice.In the early days of our marriage, our children came at close intervals. As parents of little children will know, in those years it is quite a novelty for them to get an uninterrupted night of sleep.If you have a new baby, and another youngster cutting teeth, or one with a fever, you can be up and down a hundred times a night. (That, of course, is an exaggeration. It’s probably only twenty or thirty times.)We finally divided our children into “his” and “hers” for night tending. She would get up for the new baby, and I would tend the one cutting teeth.One day we came to realize that each would hear only the one to which we were assigned, and would sleep very soundly through the cries of the other.We have commented on this over the years, convinced that you can train yourself to hear what you want to hear, to see and feel what you desire, but it takes some conditioning.There are so many of us who go through life and seldom, if ever, hear that voice of inspiration, because “the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned” The scriptures have many lessons on this subject.Lehi told his sons of a vision, but Laman and Lemuel resisted his teachings:“For he truly spake many great things unto them, which were hard to be understood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; and they being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto the Lord as they ought” They complained to their younger brother, Nephi, that they could not understand their father, and Nephi asked this question:“Have ye inquired of the Lord?“And they said unto [him]: We have not; for the Lord maketh no such thing known unto us” Later they intended to do Nephi harm and he said to them:“Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past  that ye could not  his words”  italics added).I have come to know that inspiration comes more as a feeling than as a sound.Young people, stay in condition to respond to inspiration.I have come to know also that a fundamental purpose of the Word of Wisdom has to do with revelation.From the time you are very little we teach you to avoid tea, coffee, liquor, tobacco, narcotics, and anything else that disturbs your health.And you know that we get very worried when we find one of you tampering with those things.If someone “under the influence” can hardly listen to plain talk, how can they respond to spiritual promptings that touch their most delicate feelings?As valuable as the Word of Wisdom is as a law of health, it may be much more valuable to you spiritually than it is physically.Even if you keep the Word of Wisdom, there are some things that can happen to you physically, but those things don’t generally damage you spiritually.When you become a father or a mother, don’t live so that your children go unled because of habits that leave you uninspired.The Lord has a way of pouring pure intelligence into our minds to prompt us, to guide us, to teach us, to warn us. You can know the things you need to know  Learn to receive inspiration.Even in our youth activities there is something to do with inspiration, for they include service to others. Inspiration comes more quickly when we need it to help others than when we are concerned about ourselves.Now, I know that some young people resent it a little when we comment upon such things as the wild music that is served up nowadays.Can you not see that you’re not going to get much inspiration while your mind is filled with that?The right kind of music, on the other hand, can prepare you to receive inspiration.You should know also that, in addition to static and interference which jam the circuits, there are counterfeit signals.Some have received revelations and heard voices that are put there deliberately by wicked sources to lead astray. You can learn to recognize those and tune them out, if you will.Now, how do you tell the difference? How can you know if a prompting is an inspiration or a temptation?My answer to that must surely expose my great confidence in young people. I believe young people, when properly taught, are basically sensible.In the Church we are not exempt from common sense. You can know to begin with that you won’t be prompted from any righteous source to steal, to lie, to cheat, to join anyone in any kind of moral transgression.You have a conscience even as a little boy and girl. It will prompt you to know the things that are wrong. Don’t smother it.Once again the scriptures tell us something. Read the Book of Mormon—Moroni, chapter 7. I quote only one verse:“For behold, my brethren, it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night” You read the whole chapter. It tells of a way to judge such things.If ever you are confused and feel that you are being misled, go for counsel to your parents, and to your leaders.Young people, you are going to be leading this Church tomorrow, or the next day, or the day after that. We are organized to bring you as fully as possible into Church activities and administration.Already you have been taught to pray. You need to know how to get answers.It is good to learn when you are young that spiritual things cannot be forced.Sometimes you may struggle with a problem and not get an answer. What could be wrong?It may be that you are not doing anything wrong. It may be that you have not done the right things long enough. Remember, you cannot force spiritual things.Sometimes we are confused simply because we won’t take no for an answer.On several occasions when a member has insisted that something be done his way, I have remembered that great lesson from Church history. I have said to myself in my mind:All right, Joseph, give the manuscript to Martin Harris. Do it your own way, and see where you get. Then when you’re confounded and confused, come back and we’ll get you set on the course that you might have taken earlier if you had been submissive and responsive.Someone wrote:Put difficult questions in the back of your minds and go about your lives. Ponder and pray quietly and persistently about them.The answer may not come as a lightning bolt. It may come as a little inspiration here and a little there, “line upon line, precept upon precept” Some answers will come from reading the scriptures, some from hearing speakers. And, occasionally, when it is important, some will come by very direct and powerful inspiration. The promptings will be clear and unmistakable.You can learn now, in your youth, to be led by the Holy Ghost.As an Apostle I listen now to the same inspiration, coming from the same source, in the same way, that I listened to as a boy. The signal is much clearer now.And on occasions, when it is required for His work, for instance when we are to call members to high positions in the stakes, we can ask a question in prayer and receive an immediate, direct revelation in return.No message is repeated more times in scripture than the simple thought: “Ask, and ye shall receive” I often ask the Lord for direction from Him. I will not, however, willingly accept promptings from any unworthy source. I refuse them. I do not want them, and I say so.Young people, carry a prayer in your heart always. Let sleep come every night with your mind centered in prayer.Keep the Word of Wisdom.Read the scriptures.Listen to your parents and to the leaders of the Church.Stay away from places and things that common sense tells you will interfere with inspiration.Develop your spiritual capacities.Learn to tune out the static and the interference.Avoid the substitutes and the counterfeits!Learn to be inspired and directed by the Holy Ghost.It has been many years, but I have not forgotten that as pilots in World War II we did not have the electronic equipment that we have today. Our hope in a storm was to follow a radio beam.A steady signal, and you were on course. If you moved to one side of the steady signal, it would break up to a “dit-da,” the Morse code for the letter .If you strayed to the other side of the signal, the beam would break up into a “da-dit,” the Morse code signal for In stormy weather there was always static and interference. But the life of many a pilot has depended on his hearing, above the roar of the engines and through all the static and interference, that sometimes weak signal from a distant airfield.There is a spiritual beam, with a constant signal. If you know how to pray and how to listen, spiritually listen, you may move through life, through clear weather, through storms, through wars, through peace, and be all right.Prayer can be a very public thing. We teach you often about prayer, about the asking part.Perhaps we have not taught you enough about the receiving part. This is a very private, a very individual thing, one that you must learn for yourself.Begin now, and as the years unfold before you, you who are very young, you will be led. That still small voice will come to you, and then you can come to know as many, many of us come to know, and as I bear witness, that the Lord lives. I know His voice when He speaks.I know that Jesus is the Christ, that He directs this Church, that He is close to it, that He directs His Prophets and His leaders and His people and His children, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brothers and sisters, I seek the Spirit of the Lord as I give you a message. I have chosen to speak about maintaining spirituality. This subject came to mind as I pondered the admonition of Jacob, Nephi’s brother:“Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal” President McKay defined spirituality as “the consciousness of victory over self, and of communion with the infinite. Spirituality,” he said, “impels one to conquer difficulties and acquire more and more strength. To feel one’s faculties unfolding and truth expanding the soul is one of life’s sublimest experiences” (David O. McKay,  comp. Llewelyn R. McKay, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1971, p. 99).Through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord revealed the truth that “all spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes” Abraham said: “The Lord had shown unto me … the intelligences that were organized before the world was; …“And God saw these souls that they were good, … for he stood among those that were spirits” These spirits were the offspring of God, who, according to John, is also a spirit. He—that is, John—wrote:“God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit” Although God’s spirit is clothed in “a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s”  his body is neither temporal nor carnal, for, says he, “all things unto me are spiritual”  “I … created [all things] by the word of my power, which is the power of my Spirit.“… both spiritual and temporal—“First spiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work—“… all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal” Being in tune with God is being spiritual. Man himself is naturally spiritual. His spirit is a child of God. The spirits of “the inhabitants [of all worlds] are begotten sons and daughters unto God” Furthermore, “the Spirit [of the Lord] giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.“And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto God, even the Father” “Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God.“And that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth” This loss of spirituality began with the children of Adam and Eve when they refused to obey the teachings of their parents.You will recall that Adam was taught the gospel by an angel (see  and that thereafter “he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord,” and was baptized and received the Holy Ghost. “And thus he was born of the Spirit” (see  see also “And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.“And Satan came among them [those sons and daughters], saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not [that is, the teachings of their parents]; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish” Spirituality comes by faith, repentance, baptism, and reception of the Holy Ghost. One who has the companionship of the Holy Ghost is in harmony with God. He is, therefore, spiritual. Spirituality is sustained by so living as to keep that companionship.A sure way for us to do this is to learn what our duties are and perform them. They include obeying the first and second great commandments: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind” and “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself”  They also include obedience to the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount, implementing the Articles of Faith, and prayer.As to the importance of prayer in maintaining spirituality, it is interesting to note that the first recorded commandment Adam and Eve received from the Lord, following their expulsion from the garden, was “that they should worship the Lord their God” The next heavenly being who spoke to Adam was the angel who told him that the sacrifice he was offering was “a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father. …“Wherefore,” he added, “thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore” From then until now, no divine commandment has been more frequently repeated than the commandment to pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.One of the most impressive lessons on the importance of prayer was received by the brother of Jared when “the Lord … stood in a cloud and talked with him. And for the space of three hours did the Lord talk with the brother of Jared, and chastened him because he remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord.“And,” continues the record, “the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who were with him. And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee and thy brethren of their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more, for ye shall remember that my Spirit will not always strive with man” It was not very long thereafter that the brother of Jared prayed with such faith that the Lord Jesus Christ, then a premortal spirit, appeared to him, and said: “Behold, I am Jesus Christ. …“… this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; … and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh” Another convincing evidence of the power of prayer in helping one to maintain spirituality is the account given by Enos, Jacob’s son, who wrote:“I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God, before I received a remission of my sins.“Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens.“And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.“And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.“And I said: Lord, how is it done?“And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen. And many years pass away before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole.“Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Nephites; wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God for them.“And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments” Searching the scriptures is another powerful assist in maintaining spirituality. Alma bears witness to this in his account of the miraculous missionary accomplishments of the sons of Mosiah.“They had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth,” he said, “for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God.“But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God” Prayer and searching the scriptures are companion aids in both obtaining and maintaining spirituality.“Pray always,” said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph, “that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you my conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work” Concerning the scriptures, John reports that Jesus said, “Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me” The purpose of the sacrament is to promote the maintenance of spirituality. Both the revealed prayers over the bread and over the water contain the phrase, “that they [who partake] may … have his Spirit to be with them” (see In a revelation recorded in section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith 7 August 1831 for the guidance of the Saints who had recently arrived in Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord revealed a list of instructions essential to their maintaining spirituality. In part he said:“Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory. …“For those that live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.“Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.“And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time—they that are faithful and diligent before me.“Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it.“Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.“Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit.“And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High;“Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times;“But remember that on this, the Lord’s day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord.“And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.“Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer.“And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance—“Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth;“Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards;“Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart;“Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul.“And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion.“And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments.“Behold, this is according to the law and the prophets; wherefore, …“… learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.“I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record” Spirituality, brothers and sisters, will come to all who will follow this pattern, for the Lord himself has said: “It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am;“And that I am the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world;“And that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one” Such is the pattern, my beloved brothers and sisters, for maintaining spirituality. May we all succeed in attaining it and pleasing the Lord and find him, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.