My beloved brothers and sisters, I seek the Spirit of the Lord as I give you a message. I have chosen to speak about maintaining spirituality. This subject came to mind as I pondered the admonition of Jacob, Nephi’s brother:“Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal” President McKay defined spirituality as “the consciousness of victory over self, and of communion with the infinite. Spirituality,” he said, “impels one to conquer difficulties and acquire more and more strength. To feel one’s faculties unfolding and truth expanding the soul is one of life’s sublimest experiences” (David O. McKay,  comp. Llewelyn R. McKay, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1971, p. 99).Through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord revealed the truth that “all spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes” Abraham said: “The Lord had shown unto me … the intelligences that were organized before the world was; …“And God saw these souls that they were good, … for he stood among those that were spirits” These spirits were the offspring of God, who, according to John, is also a spirit. He—that is, John—wrote:“God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit” Although God’s spirit is clothed in “a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s”  his body is neither temporal nor carnal, for, says he, “all things unto me are spiritual”  “I … created [all things] by the word of my power, which is the power of my Spirit.“… both spiritual and temporal—“First spiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work—“… all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal” Being in tune with God is being spiritual. Man himself is naturally spiritual. His spirit is a child of God. The spirits of “the inhabitants [of all worlds] are begotten sons and daughters unto God” Furthermore, “the Spirit [of the Lord] giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.“And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto God, even the Father” “Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God.“And that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth” This loss of spirituality began with the children of Adam and Eve when they refused to obey the teachings of their parents.You will recall that Adam was taught the gospel by an angel (see  and that thereafter “he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord,” and was baptized and received the Holy Ghost. “And thus he was born of the Spirit” (see  see also “And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.“And Satan came among them [those sons and daughters], saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not [that is, the teachings of their parents]; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish” Spirituality comes by faith, repentance, baptism, and reception of the Holy Ghost. One who has the companionship of the Holy Ghost is in harmony with God. He is, therefore, spiritual. Spirituality is sustained by so living as to keep that companionship.A sure way for us to do this is to learn what our duties are and perform them. They include obeying the first and second great commandments: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind” and “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself”  They also include obedience to the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount, implementing the Articles of Faith, and prayer.As to the importance of prayer in maintaining spirituality, it is interesting to note that the first recorded commandment Adam and Eve received from the Lord, following their expulsion from the garden, was “that they should worship the Lord their God” The next heavenly being who spoke to Adam was the angel who told him that the sacrifice he was offering was “a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father. …“Wherefore,” he added, “thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore” From then until now, no divine commandment has been more frequently repeated than the commandment to pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.One of the most impressive lessons on the importance of prayer was received by the brother of Jared when “the Lord … stood in a cloud and talked with him. And for the space of three hours did the Lord talk with the brother of Jared, and chastened him because he remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord.“And,” continues the record, “the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who were with him. And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee and thy brethren of their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more, for ye shall remember that my Spirit will not always strive with man” It was not very long thereafter that the brother of Jared prayed with such faith that the Lord Jesus Christ, then a premortal spirit, appeared to him, and said: “Behold, I am Jesus Christ. …“… this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; … and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh” Another convincing evidence of the power of prayer in helping one to maintain spirituality is the account given by Enos, Jacob’s son, who wrote:“I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God, before I received a remission of my sins.“Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens.“And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.“And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt was swept away.“And I said: Lord, how is it done?“And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen. And many years pass away before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole.“Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Nephites; wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God for them.“And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my commandments” Searching the scriptures is another powerful assist in maintaining spirituality. Alma bears witness to this in his account of the miraculous missionary accomplishments of the sons of Mosiah.“They had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth,” he said, “for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God.“But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God” Prayer and searching the scriptures are companion aids in both obtaining and maintaining spirituality.“Pray always,” said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph, “that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you my conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work” Concerning the scriptures, John reports that Jesus said, “Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me” The purpose of the sacrament is to promote the maintenance of spirituality. Both the revealed prayers over the bread and over the water contain the phrase, “that they [who partake] may … have his Spirit to be with them” (see In a revelation recorded in section 59 of the Doctrine and Covenants, given through the Prophet Joseph Smith 7 August 1831 for the guidance of the Saints who had recently arrived in Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord revealed a list of instructions essential to their maintaining spirituality. In part he said:“Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory. …“For those that live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.“Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.“And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time—they that are faithful and diligent before me.“Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him.“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it.“Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.“Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in righteousness, even that of a broken heart and a contrite spirit.“And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;“For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High;“Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times;“But remember that on this, the Lord’s day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord.“And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.“Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer.“And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance—“Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this, the fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth;“Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards;“Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart;“Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul.“And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion.“And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments.“Behold, this is according to the law and the prophets; wherefore, …“… learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.“I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record” Spirituality, brothers and sisters, will come to all who will follow this pattern, for the Lord himself has said: “It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am;“And that I am the true light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world;“And that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one” Such is the pattern, my beloved brothers and sisters, for maintaining spirituality. May we all succeed in attaining it and pleasing the Lord and find him, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.After one of his journeys in Palestine, Jesus came to his own city and taught in the synagogue on the Sabbath day.Those who heard him were astonished at his doctrine, but they were also offended. He had been their neighbor, and they resented his assuming to teach them. They said:“Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?” Jesus was grieved at their rejection of him and “marvelled because of their unbelief”  It was then that he said, “A prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house” But he was rebuffed not only in Nazareth. By the end of his ministry, it seemed that nearly the whole country had turned against him.As he contemplated his rejection in Jerusalem, he looked down upon the city and said, “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, … how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!” And then he foretold the result of their rejection—a tragic consequence which they would bring upon themselves. He said, “Behold, your house is left unto you desolate” And what a desolation it was! As the Roman legions swept through the Holy Land only a few years later and wiped out Jerusalem, it was such a catastrophe that it fully reflected the Savior’s prediction when he said, “Then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be” As Josephus describes it in his writings, it is dreadful to contemplate, even after almost two thousand years.Repeatedly, generation after generation, Israel had turned to the gods of their neighbors as they also rejected the prophets. And desolation came upon them because of it just as it came upon their descendants who rejected Christ in his day. All twelve tribes were taken into slavery. Two returned but became subjects of Rome. The ten tribes were lost to the world. The fruits of rebellion indeed were desolation.And what is the lesson in all of this? It is that no people can fight God and live! Every nation will feel a chastening hand if it turns its back upon the Ruler of Heaven and violates his eternal precepts.As I study these things in holy writ, I think of us who live today. Are we in the same category as those ancients? Does our modern world accept or reject Jesus Christ? And if we reject him, does the prospect of desolation concern us?Do the so-called Christian nations really obey him? Or by their crimes and corruption do they essentially deny him while giving him lip service?He despises lip service! No one objects more strenuously to hypocrisy than does the Almighty. And so, do our Christian nations really accept and obey him? What is the evidence?The world no longer honors his sacred Sabbath. Violation is seen on all sides. The true meaning of chastity has been almost obliterated. Dishonesty is a way of life with millions.Even in the churches his holy ordinances have been changed or eliminated. Divine authority is lost. Creeds reflect the teachings of men. The divine sonship of Christ is challenged, as is his virgin birth. Many no longer believe in his resurrection.Then can this present world truthfully say that it accepts Jesus Christ? Must he not marvel at the unbelief of today as he did in ancient Nazareth?Would not the Apostle Paul marvel at the many divisions in modern Christianity in the face of his declaration that Christ is not divided but that Christians should all speak the same thing and that there should be no divisions among them? Did he not say that Christians should be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment and not divide into separate groups? (See Are not the divisions in Christianity and the turmoil within Christian nations evidence of their departure from Christ?And what about ourselves? What about those of us who are members of this church? How devoted are we to the cause of Christ? Is there any evidence of rejection of him on our part? If we fail to obey him, do we reject him?As we receive baptism, we enter a covenant to serve God. As we partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, we again enter into covenants to serve him, to keep his commandments, and to always remember him.In the sacrament we seal our covenant by partaking of the sacred emblems of the Crucifixion. Literally, then, as we partake, do we not pledge to keep each and every commandment, and do we not confirm that pledge by eating of the broken bread and drinking from the cup?What does the broken bread represent? The torn flesh of Christ!What does the cup represent? His blood shed on the cross in the midst of suffering of infinite proportions, suffering which made himself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain and to bleed at every pore and suffer both in body and spirit (see The Atonement was the most important thing that has ever happened. It is by virtue of the Atonement that we pledge obedience to our Father in Heaven. We promise not only to live the gospel in a general way, but specifically to keep the individual commandments.As we take the broken bread, for example, do we not say to God that by this sacred emblem which we eat, we agree to keep the Sabbath day holy?Or, do we not affirm before heaven that we here and now pledge to pay a full tithing, as another example, and seal our promise by partaking of the sacrament?Do our covenants have such a specific meaning? I ask you, could they mean anything less?We are under covenant to live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, and to observe his holy ordinances. Such obedience must include chastity, sobriety, integrity, honesty, purity, charity, temperance, faithfulness, diligence in his service, brotherly kindness, patience, and devotion. And it must include a full acceptance of his prescribed ordinances.It is by obedience to his commandments that we prove our love for him. Did he not say, “If ye love me, keep my commandments”  And he made it abundantly clear that if we obey not, we love not.Now I ask you, how different are we Latter-day Saints from the rest of the world?And I ask you most earnestly, do most modern people live in a state of rejection of Christ, since most of them do not serve him? Does our modern world risk the same kind of desolation that came upon the ancient world—and for the same reason?But he is merciful. Although he was despised in his day, Jesus still held out love and forgiveness to all, even to his enemies, if they would repent.It was in this sense that he spoke to them and said, “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, … how often would I have gathered thy children together, … and ye would not!” As I study his words, I ask myself if the Lord would speak to modern peoples in the same compassionate way, and I feel that he would, since he is no respecter of persons (see Do you suppose that he might now say, “O America, America, how often would I gather your children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wing”?Or, might he say, “O England, O England, how often would I gather your children together”?Or, “O Germany,” or Scandinavia, or any other people on earth, “How often would I gather your children together”?If we reject him in this modern age, can it be less serious than was the apostasy of ancient Israel when they turned to idolatry?It is no trivial thing to reject Almighty God, either by a show of indifference or with malice aforethought. The divine words still echo in our ears: “Trifle not with sacred things” His commandments are clearly set forth. His standards of morality, honesty, and the other virtues are well known. But sadly enough, they are noted more for their rejection than for their acceptance. Does this mean that desolation might come upon us in some form?Why should legislatures condone immorality, whether homosexual or otherwise? Why should officers of state condone vice and even protect it? Why should lawmakers—why should the courts—oppose prayer and reading of the scriptures, doing so in the name of the constitution of this land, where we daily affirm, “In God is our trust” (“Oh Say, Can You See,”  no. 131)?Are they for Christ or against him in this Christian land? Can there be any neutrality with respect to God? Christ says no! We are either for him or against him (see Why should legislatures favor a wholesale violation of the Sabbath day and defeat Sunday closing laws? Why should so-called Christian peoples put up with it?Almost like children, we fret over our fuel shortages and other inconveniences. We resent restrictions upon our pleasure-seeking activities. Why don’t we admit like grown men and women that a rejection of God is at the very root of all of our troubles? Why do we refuse to wake up to the facts in our situation? Why must we blindly plunge on into catastrophe?Should we not take right and proper steps to overcome our conflicts, our crimes, and all of our corruptions?There is but one sure and certain way:  And that must include a sincere acceptance of the Lord Jesus Christ, with full obedience to his precepts.What would he do even now for America if this nation would truly accept him! What would he do for England, for Mexico, for Scandinavia, for Germany, for the Orient, for South America, and for all peoples if they would turn to him, repent of their transgressions, and accept his divine invitation!He says:“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light” Think of the burden of war and the cost of munitions to preserve the peace. Think of the burden of crime and of overwhelming debt, both private and public. Think of the heavy personal burdens we carry in this world.And then think what a relief it would be if we were free of them. This can come if we accept the invitation of Christ.Compared to our present burdens, his is light indeed. His yoke is easy, and in the warmth of his divine soul he will welcome each repentant person. We need not fear him, for he is meek and lowly in heart.Listen! Can you hear his call? He is saying even now, “O America, America, how often will I yet gather you—if you will but come.”“O England, O Scandinavia, O Mexico, O Germany, O Japan, O Korea, and all other lands.” Can you hear? He is calling you—now, today. He will gather you even now, and nurture you and prosper you and give you peace— you will but come to him in humility and repentance.In this land we often sing “God Bless America.” Let us continue to do so as a prayer. But why not also sing God bless England, and God bless Scandinavia, and God bless South America and Mexico and the Orient, and God bless Australia and New Zealand, and  He will bless them—every one—if they will turn to him with full purpose of heart. But there is no other way.He can end their wars, their internal conflicts, their poverty, their unemployment, and their need of doles. He can eliminate their crimes, their moral corruption, and all the diseases that follow in their wake.He can give them peace—genuine peace—mentally, physically, spiritually, economically, and politically. But they must pay the price, which is sincere obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.Why, in the name of common sense, can we not see it? Why in the name of reason do we not turn to him, readily and cheerfully? It is the only safe course.This is no meaningless rhetoric in which we engage here today. We speak of hard facts, of the realities of life.There was a time in ancient America when such blessings came to this land and lasted for two hundred years. Peace and prosperity were everywhere. There were no wars, no crimes, no jails, no poverty, no moral corruption, and none of the diseases which sins produce—not for two hundred years.This is no storybook tale. It was a great reality. It was a vital chapter in world history that came but has never been repeated. Yet it  be repeated now in our day, on the same terms.The billions we spend on armaments could be directed to peaceful pursuits. The billions that are lost in crime could be diverted toward improving the human race. There would be no racial conflicts, no strikes, no boycotts or lockouts, no armies or navies, and no satellite spy operations.It is all within our reach as a great physical reality. The price is far less than what we now pay, and the rewards are indescribably greater.O Jerusalem! O America! O England, and all other countries! The Lord says to all, “Come unto me, … and I will give you rest”  In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.