“Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name”  A salutation with reverence, love, and obedience is invoked in this introduction of a model of prayer given by our Savior himself. Every word is chosen for its particular meaning and inspiring, noble thoughts, elevating our souls to a new level of understanding. We truly have here an expression and example of divine language.Words, sentences, languages: What are they? How do they affect us, our families, and our Heavenly Father?One word—just a single, simple word—can bring a variety of thoughts and influences. A combination of words can make sense or express foolishness.One word could mean approval or denial, blessing or cursing, doubt or knowledge, friendship or enmity. The way we say one word, the intonation we use, may cause love or hate. Words can be harsh, melodious, soft-spoken, announced, or even shouted. They can roll like a wave and enthuse and bring victory and pride. We read in Shakespeare: “Who is it in the press that calls on me? I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music, cry ‘Caesar’” ( act 1, scene 2, lines 15–17). Words can be distilled drop by drop like a poison, or eat away like a cancer. They can be articulated or mumbled; but every time a word is said, watch it, because it can never be retrieved. It is gone with the wind, gone forever.Usually we select our words, sometimes using a particular vocabulary, and we employ certain words because of their meanings and the connotations that we want to project. Usage varies, depending on whether we ask, want, pray, persuade, force, influence, or subdue.Words are a form of personal expression. They differentiate us as well as fingerprints do. They reflect what kind of person we are, and tell of our background, and depict our way of life. They describe our thinking as well as our inner feelings.But where do they come from, and why is language so peculiar? It started in the beginning, as we read in “And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration;“And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled.”Language is of divine origin. Only man speaks (and women do even better), and he does so because of the purpose for which he was created. Let us listen to Paul when he said: “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal”  Anacharsis, when asked what was the best part of man, answered: “The tongue.” When asked what was the worst, the answer was the same: “The tongue.”“Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.“Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.“Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?“Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh” In the Book of Mormon we read that “it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things”  We know by experience, however, what opposition in words can do to individuals, if not controlled. So when we are counseled to be a righteous people, is it only concerning our attitudes? What about corrupted language; foul language; slang; and words evoking evil, dirt, and destruction of the body and soul? The name of Deity is to be used to touch hearts and give light; it is not to be used in vain or to be mocked. Too often, it seems that this kind of language attracts young people and male adults because it is a way in their eyes to be recognized, to look tough or virile. Would this mean that education and manners, charm and reverence are an exclusive feminine matter? What about missionary language that uses words and expression to describe their companions, their investigators, or their leaders in a way that not only sounds disrespectful but also shows a lack of reverence and love?Words can get things done, commitments fulfilled, or miracles accomplished. We may, because of words, be moved to tears or to laughter, feel great or miserable, be exalted or condemned. “Man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live”  Words are sacred in prayer, for example: “Our Heavenly Father”; in sharing a testimony and testifying of the truth: “And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father”  in giving a status: “I am a child of God”; in summarizing a mission: “Charity never faileth”  in showing love to our family members: “I love you.”Words, when expressed by prophets—by a living prophet like Spencer W. Kimball—tell us about the will and the mind of the Lord and are an example of divine language and perfection. “For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner doth the Lord God work among the children of men. For the Lord God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men according to their language, unto their understanding” For example, in one of his recent addresses, President Kimball emphasized the need to learn and know more than our own language. “We need much more language training. We need more people fluent in Mandarin and Cantonese” (Regional Representatives Seminar, 30 March 1979). By studying other languages, we can also improve in our ways to give the message of the restoration of the gospel to the world. The Lord’s people must be distinguished among other nations not only by their calling and behavior, but also by the purity of their language. In Deuteronomy we read: “For thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God: the Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above all people that are upon the face of the earth” Language is divine. Some may know this but do not realize its implications in their daily family life. Love at home starts with a loving language. This need is so important that, without loving words, some become mentally unbalanced, others emotionally disturbed, and some may even die. No society can survive after its family life has deteriorated, and this deterioration has always started with one word—one single, simple word.My prayer is that as children of our Heavenly Father we can glorify him and his Son Jesus Christ with better words of love and appreciation to our loved ones and our neighbors in a language pure and undefiled and with a desire to communicate in a divine way.Our Heavenly Father lives; his Son is Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer; his prophet on earth today is Spencer W. Kimball; he is the mouthpiece of the Lord. May His holy name be sanctified by our words forever and ever, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The eternal truths of the gospel are being accepted by an ever-growing body of believers throughout the world. Our local Church members, working in harmony with our full-time missionaries, are resulting in a rapid expansion of this Church.Three weeks ago it was my privilege to be assigned to create new stakes in Lima, Peru. We met in a coliseum with over 7,000 Saints and investigators. After this moving spiritual experience, we were confronted by three newspaper reporters in the parking lot. They asked: “Why are you in Lima?” “How many members does your church have in Peru?” “Why is your church growing so rapidly?” “What are your church’s future plans?”And then a young woman reporter asked, “What is the difference between your church and other churches?”The crowd was large and pressing toward us, the traffic rather noisy. We were on a close time schedule. It was not an ideal setting, not one I would have chosen to explain the difference between the Lord’s church and others. However, taking advantage of this opportunity, we explained briefly the Apostasy and the Restoration: that there is vast evidence and history of an apostasy from the doctrine taught by Jesus and his Apostles, that the organization of the original Church became corrupted, and sacred ordinances were changed to suit the convenience of men, and that today good people all over the world are confused with contending religions with differing doctrine and methods of worship.The reporters listened intently. We explained to them that after a long period of darkness there was a heavenly directed restoration of the true gospel of the Savior, that a young man named Joseph Smith was chosen and schooled to be the instrument to perform the foundation labor for the marvelous work which God has established as his church in these last days.As we briefly told of the Restoration and of Joseph Smith, his profile focused in my mind in a most interesting way. It was an unusual experience. As the Prophet’s facial profile remained in my mind I thought: “If these reporters and the world could only understand the entire story and the significance of the Restoration—of the eternal blessings God has made available to all. If they could only feel as I feel. If they could know, as I know, if they could only realize the calling and the role of the Prophet.”I added my witness that Joseph Smith was divinely commissioned as the restorer of the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, that he was and is a prophet of God, that he sought God in prayer and God spoke to him. He did the work Jesus, the Son of God, commanded him to do, and this Church, which the Prophet assisted in organizing, is possessor of the divine keys and authority of the holy priesthood, and is charged with the responsibility to carry God’s plan of salvation to all his earthly children.Man was wondering then as now: “Is there a God? Can he speak to man? Is he concerned with individual human needs?”A young man not unfamiliar with praying, and responding to his youthful faith, entered a grove and, looking around and finding himself alone, kneeled, and offered up the desires of his heart to God. The grove became exceedingly light, brighter than he had ever known. Before him stood two glorious personages—defying all description. One pointed to the other and said,  The Son spoke to the kneeling boy. Joseph was told that all the churches were wrong—they had corrupted the doctrine, had changed the ordinances, and had lost the authority of the priesthood—and that he, unlearned but humble, was to be the instrument through whom the Almighty would reestablish his work. (See The prevalent religious teachings of the world had reduced God, in the minds of people, to a fragile spirit, spread throughout the universe, nowhere yet everywhere present—nebulous theories and uncertain doctrine as to the personality of God and the Godhead. Truth had become perverted. When the boy prophet came out of the grove, he had no doubts—he knew. He had looked upon the Father and the Son. They had visited him and instructed him. In the Prophet’s own words: “I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it” Joseph now knew God is in the form of a man. He has a voice, he speaks, he is kind, he answers prayers. His Son is like the Father—but a separate and distinct person. Joseph learned the Son is obedient to the Father and mediator between God and man.The Lord needed a man of steel, one fearless to withstand ridicule and social and political pressures, one like unto Moses, yet greater.In due course the boy prophet had other angelic visitations.Joseph Smith’s account of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, attended by heavenly messengers, is in full harmony with the appearance of God himself to the Prophet.The Book of Mormon, a record of the inhabitants of ancient America, was translated by “the gift and power of God” and made available to all people. Its pages are for the “convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations” (see The Book of Mormon is the most correct book on earth and contains the pure gospel of Christ. It is the most precious book possessed by man.During the eventful years from the time of the First Vision in 1820 to the June morning of 1844 when two wagons bearing the bodies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith slowly made the six-hour trek from Carthage to Nauvoo, the heavens had opened; the foundation of this great work and kingdom in this dispensation had been laid. His Church was organized as anciently. Apostles now held the necessary keys of the priesthood. Joseph’s work was done. There never was a doubt in his mind or his loyal associates’ as to his divine calling, for he had made clear to them his inspired pronouncements.The organization and priesthood of Christ’s original church is restored with apostles, prophets, evangelists, seventies, elders, bishops, priests, teachers, and deacons—all necessary for the gospel to be preached to every nation and to strengthen members and bind them to the body of Saints.The Church of Christ is reestablished with doctrine, ordinances, and authority as commissioned by the Savior when he was on the earth. Once again man is ordained with power and authority to carry out His purposes. Uncertainty is removed, the Savior’s church and work restored. The doctrine of the restored gospel is comprehensive and complete. It teaches that  italics added). That is, man lived before he came to this earth. He is an eternal being. Joseph Smith gave to the world the true understanding of the origin of man, that man comes to earth with a divine and eternal purpose.Joseph Smith’s inspired contributions to all of God’s children of the true meaning of life and the destiny of man unfolded little by little, line upon line, through the ministration of angels and others whom the Lord called to the work. The entire account was so glorious and so unexpected that most people of that day could not accept it.Revelations to Joseph Smith expand man’s knowledge that Jesus Christ was crucified to save the world from sin, that through his act of redemption all mankind will be resurrected from the grave and given the possibility of eternal life if obedient to gospel principles.We are taught further enlightenment on Jesus’ statement “In my Father’s house are many mansions”  We learn not only of the degrees of glory and those eligible, but that man should strive for the highest “heaven” which is available, and is reachable only through obedience to all of God’s commandments. President George Albert Smith said: “One of the beautiful things to me in the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it brings us all to a common level. It is not necessary for a man to be a president of a stake, or a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in order to attain a high place in the celestial kingdom. The humblest member of the Church, if he keeps the commandments of God, will obtain an exaltation just as much as any other man in the celestial kingdom. The beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it makes us all equal. … As we keep the commandments of the Lord … we have equal opportunities for exaltation” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1933, p. 25).One of the most profound principles of God’s love for his children was revealed to Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple in 1836. In a vision he saw someone who had not received an opportunity to accept the gospel while living. A voice declared that all who have died without an opportunity to hear the gospel and accept it while on this earth will have the privilege in the spirit world. If they would have received it, given the opportunity, they will be heirs of the celestial kingdom. The Lord “will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts” “Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord,” wrote President John Taylor, “has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord’s anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood” While the Saints were still mourning their loss, William W. Phelps, a loyal associate, expressed their feelings when he wrote:Now, the final restoration has taken place, I testify to all of you—the restoration of all things “which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began” has been accomplished The gifts of the Spirit, signs that the gospel has been restored, are with the true Saints.The gift of the Holy Ghost, through whose power and influence men learn the truth and knowledge of the plan of salvation, is available.Temples have been built where the Lord may come “and restore again that which was lost … even the fulness of the priesthood” The Lord himself testified of the Prophet Joseph Smith as He gave a revelation to the Saints at Winter Quarters in January of 1847. He said, “Marvel not at these things, … but ye shall behold it if ye are faithful in keeping all my words that I have given … to Joseph Smith, whom I did call upon by mine angels, … and by mine own voice out of the heavens, to bring forth my work;“Which foundation he did lay, and was faithful; and I took him to myself” Joseph was the prophet of the Restoration. I testify to you of his divinity and of his greatness, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.