After one of his journeys in Palestine, Jesus came to his own city and taught in the synagogue on the Sabbath day.Those who heard him were astonished at his doctrine, but they were also offended. He had been their neighbor, and they resented his assuming to teach them. They said:“Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?” Jesus was grieved at their rejection of him and “marvelled because of their unbelief”  It was then that he said, “A prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house” But he was rebuffed not only in Nazareth. By the end of his ministry, it seemed that nearly the whole country had turned against him.As he contemplated his rejection in Jerusalem, he looked down upon the city and said, “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, … how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!” And then he foretold the result of their rejection—a tragic consequence which they would bring upon themselves. He said, “Behold, your house is left unto you desolate” And what a desolation it was! As the Roman legions swept through the Holy Land only a few years later and wiped out Jerusalem, it was such a catastrophe that it fully reflected the Savior’s prediction when he said, “Then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be” As Josephus describes it in his writings, it is dreadful to contemplate, even after almost two thousand years.Repeatedly, generation after generation, Israel had turned to the gods of their neighbors as they also rejected the prophets. And desolation came upon them because of it just as it came upon their descendants who rejected Christ in his day. All twelve tribes were taken into slavery. Two returned but became subjects of Rome. The ten tribes were lost to the world. The fruits of rebellion indeed were desolation.And what is the lesson in all of this? It is that no people can fight God and live! Every nation will feel a chastening hand if it turns its back upon the Ruler of Heaven and violates his eternal precepts.As I study these things in holy writ, I think of us who live today. Are we in the same category as those ancients? Does our modern world accept or reject Jesus Christ? And if we reject him, does the prospect of desolation concern us?Do the so-called Christian nations really obey him? Or by their crimes and corruption do they essentially deny him while giving him lip service?He despises lip service! No one objects more strenuously to hypocrisy than does the Almighty. And so, do our Christian nations really accept and obey him? What is the evidence?The world no longer honors his sacred Sabbath. Violation is seen on all sides. The true meaning of chastity has been almost obliterated. Dishonesty is a way of life with millions.Even in the churches his holy ordinances have been changed or eliminated. Divine authority is lost. Creeds reflect the teachings of men. The divine sonship of Christ is challenged, as is his virgin birth. Many no longer believe in his resurrection.Then can this present world truthfully say that it accepts Jesus Christ? Must he not marvel at the unbelief of today as he did in ancient Nazareth?Would not the Apostle Paul marvel at the many divisions in modern Christianity in the face of his declaration that Christ is not divided but that Christians should all speak the same thing and that there should be no divisions among them? Did he not say that Christians should be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment and not divide into separate groups? (See Are not the divisions in Christianity and the turmoil within Christian nations evidence of their departure from Christ?And what about ourselves? What about those of us who are members of this church? How devoted are we to the cause of Christ? Is there any evidence of rejection of him on our part? If we fail to obey him, do we reject him?As we receive baptism, we enter a covenant to serve God. As we partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, we again enter into covenants to serve him, to keep his commandments, and to always remember him.In the sacrament we seal our covenant by partaking of the sacred emblems of the Crucifixion. Literally, then, as we partake, do we not pledge to keep each and every commandment, and do we not confirm that pledge by eating of the broken bread and drinking from the cup?What does the broken bread represent? The torn flesh of Christ!What does the cup represent? His blood shed on the cross in the midst of suffering of infinite proportions, suffering which made himself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain and to bleed at every pore and suffer both in body and spirit (see The Atonement was the most important thing that has ever happened. It is by virtue of the Atonement that we pledge obedience to our Father in Heaven. We promise not only to live the gospel in a general way, but specifically to keep the individual commandments.As we take the broken bread, for example, do we not say to God that by this sacred emblem which we eat, we agree to keep the Sabbath day holy?Or, do we not affirm before heaven that we here and now pledge to pay a full tithing, as another example, and seal our promise by partaking of the sacrament?Do our covenants have such a specific meaning? I ask you, could they mean anything less?We are under covenant to live by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, and to observe his holy ordinances. Such obedience must include chastity, sobriety, integrity, honesty, purity, charity, temperance, faithfulness, diligence in his service, brotherly kindness, patience, and devotion. And it must include a full acceptance of his prescribed ordinances.It is by obedience to his commandments that we prove our love for him. Did he not say, “If ye love me, keep my commandments”  And he made it abundantly clear that if we obey not, we love not.Now I ask you, how different are we Latter-day Saints from the rest of the world?And I ask you most earnestly, do most modern people live in a state of rejection of Christ, since most of them do not serve him? Does our modern world risk the same kind of desolation that came upon the ancient world—and for the same reason?But he is merciful. Although he was despised in his day, Jesus still held out love and forgiveness to all, even to his enemies, if they would repent.It was in this sense that he spoke to them and said, “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, … how often would I have gathered thy children together, … and ye would not!” As I study his words, I ask myself if the Lord would speak to modern peoples in the same compassionate way, and I feel that he would, since he is no respecter of persons (see Do you suppose that he might now say, “O America, America, how often would I gather your children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wing”?Or, might he say, “O England, O England, how often would I gather your children together”?Or, “O Germany,” or Scandinavia, or any other people on earth, “How often would I gather your children together”?If we reject him in this modern age, can it be less serious than was the apostasy of ancient Israel when they turned to idolatry?It is no trivial thing to reject Almighty God, either by a show of indifference or with malice aforethought. The divine words still echo in our ears: “Trifle not with sacred things” His commandments are clearly set forth. His standards of morality, honesty, and the other virtues are well known. But sadly enough, they are noted more for their rejection than for their acceptance. Does this mean that desolation might come upon us in some form?Why should legislatures condone immorality, whether homosexual or otherwise? Why should officers of state condone vice and even protect it? Why should lawmakers—why should the courts—oppose prayer and reading of the scriptures, doing so in the name of the constitution of this land, where we daily affirm, “In God is our trust” (“Oh Say, Can You See,”  no. 131)?Are they for Christ or against him in this Christian land? Can there be any neutrality with respect to God? Christ says no! We are either for him or against him (see Why should legislatures favor a wholesale violation of the Sabbath day and defeat Sunday closing laws? Why should so-called Christian peoples put up with it?Almost like children, we fret over our fuel shortages and other inconveniences. We resent restrictions upon our pleasure-seeking activities. Why don’t we admit like grown men and women that a rejection of God is at the very root of all of our troubles? Why do we refuse to wake up to the facts in our situation? Why must we blindly plunge on into catastrophe?Should we not take right and proper steps to overcome our conflicts, our crimes, and all of our corruptions?There is but one sure and certain way:  And that must include a sincere acceptance of the Lord Jesus Christ, with full obedience to his precepts.What would he do even now for America if this nation would truly accept him! What would he do for England, for Mexico, for Scandinavia, for Germany, for the Orient, for South America, and for all peoples if they would turn to him, repent of their transgressions, and accept his divine invitation!He says:“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light” Think of the burden of war and the cost of munitions to preserve the peace. Think of the burden of crime and of overwhelming debt, both private and public. Think of the heavy personal burdens we carry in this world.And then think what a relief it would be if we were free of them. This can come if we accept the invitation of Christ.Compared to our present burdens, his is light indeed. His yoke is easy, and in the warmth of his divine soul he will welcome each repentant person. We need not fear him, for he is meek and lowly in heart.Listen! Can you hear his call? He is saying even now, “O America, America, how often will I yet gather you—if you will but come.”“O England, O Scandinavia, O Mexico, O Germany, O Japan, O Korea, and all other lands.” Can you hear? He is calling you—now, today. He will gather you even now, and nurture you and prosper you and give you peace— you will but come to him in humility and repentance.In this land we often sing “God Bless America.” Let us continue to do so as a prayer. But why not also sing God bless England, and God bless Scandinavia, and God bless South America and Mexico and the Orient, and God bless Australia and New Zealand, and  He will bless them—every one—if they will turn to him with full purpose of heart. But there is no other way.He can end their wars, their internal conflicts, their poverty, their unemployment, and their need of doles. He can eliminate their crimes, their moral corruption, and all the diseases that follow in their wake.He can give them peace—genuine peace—mentally, physically, spiritually, economically, and politically. But they must pay the price, which is sincere obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.Why, in the name of common sense, can we not see it? Why in the name of reason do we not turn to him, readily and cheerfully? It is the only safe course.This is no meaningless rhetoric in which we engage here today. We speak of hard facts, of the realities of life.There was a time in ancient America when such blessings came to this land and lasted for two hundred years. Peace and prosperity were everywhere. There were no wars, no crimes, no jails, no poverty, no moral corruption, and none of the diseases which sins produce—not for two hundred years.This is no storybook tale. It was a great reality. It was a vital chapter in world history that came but has never been repeated. Yet it  be repeated now in our day, on the same terms.The billions we spend on armaments could be directed to peaceful pursuits. The billions that are lost in crime could be diverted toward improving the human race. There would be no racial conflicts, no strikes, no boycotts or lockouts, no armies or navies, and no satellite spy operations.It is all within our reach as a great physical reality. The price is far less than what we now pay, and the rewards are indescribably greater.O Jerusalem! O America! O England, and all other countries! The Lord says to all, “Come unto me, … and I will give you rest”  In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.President Kimball has already suggested that what we say may be supportive of the things he has already declared. “God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,“Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds” One of the principal purposes of this general conference of the Church is to announce again that God has raised up a prophet by whom he declares his will to the peoples of this world. This means that not only is the prophet sent to those who accept his words, such as the members of the Church, but also he is speaking in the name of God to all the inhabitants of the earth. He says, as did an ancient prophet, “Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the Lord hath spoken”  He has been sent especially to you who do not believe in God or in prophets. Wouldn’t you like to know what he is saying? He says that in these last days God has restored the ancient gospel in its fulness and wishes to make a new covenant with all people. He says that Jesus Christ will shortly come again to the earth to save and judge the world and that we should all get ready. Now whether you believe it or not, this is earthshaking news.The interesting thing about prophets is that most people don’t listen to them. That is why prophets often seem to be impatient or even angry. That is how the Lord feels about us when we don’t listen. That is how you feel when your children won’t listen.We know some of you say that you do not believe in God. Some of you have even been so unwise as to say there is no God. That kind of statement raises some interesting questions. Do you think your unbelief makes any difference? He won’t go away just because you don’t believe in him. Reportedly, when Galileo was forced to say, contrary to his knowledge, that the earth did not turn, he then added, “And yet it turns” (see  ed. W. Gurney Benham, London: Cassell and Co., 1914, p. 737). Perhaps you are correct in saying that God is not like you have been told, but how can you know that there is no God? Did he reveal it to you? Have you been there to make sure? All you can really know is that you don’t know there is a God, and that is an admission of ignorance.Two Russians went around the world in a spacecraft a time or two and declared that they had gone to heaven and God was not there. This is a pretty weak argument for atheism. It isn’t even scientific. It reminds me of the blasphemous remark of a scoffing acquaintance of my brother who said, “I dreamed I saw God and he was a horse.” My brother’s comment was, “Certainly. That is perfectly logical to a jackass.”All the evidence is on our side. You cannot prove God away from us. To know that there is no God you would have to go everywhere and know everything.The prophet declares that God lives and that he is speaking to us in these last days. As witnesses we know this. God has been seen, heard, and felt. With the declaration that the gospel has been restored is the promise that the Holy Ghost will also witness the fact to you, and then you will know. If that doesn’t happen after you have earnestly and prayerfully listened, you are free from all obligation to believe.What about you who believe in God but don’t believe in prophets or revelation? Why not? How can you know about God without revelation? Is it bad to have a prophet? Is there some rule against it? Don’t we need a prophet? Wouldn’t it be comforting, for example, if the president of the United States were a prophet? Wouldn’t it be wonderful for this country if God would just tell us what we ought to be doing? As a matter of fact, he is telling us. The only trouble is that by and large we won’t listen. It is just the same as in ancient times when other prophets spoke. You would rather commit adultery, play on Sunday, drink your whiskey, and let someone else tend to the problems of society and the world. God is trying to straighten all these things out by the words of his prophet. And only when you have enough faith will you be able to hear the message.Now, to the most foolish of all, those of you who belong to the Church and who say you are not interested. You say that you are not religious and you don’t enjoy going to church. Some people who are sick physically don’t like their medicine either, but they take it so they may be well. Do you remember when your parents urged you to eat your vegetables? Now you are doing the same with your children. Let me tell you about your spiritual vegetables. You have been brought up in light. You know about God. You know about the Savior. You know they appeared to Joseph Smith. You know the angel Moroni gave the Book of Mormon to Joseph Smith. You have it in your home. You believe in the Bible. That is a great deal to throw away just so you can go fishing.I have a friend who one time went on a family outing to Yellowstone Park. While he was faithful to his commitments as a member and leader in the Church, some of his relatives tended to scoff at his “straitlaced” religious nature. They persuaded him, one Sunday morning, to go out in the boat fishing with them. Suddenly a strong wind arose, and they found themselves in such danger that they feared for their lives. The taunting and skepticism were suddenly gone. In plaintive unison they looked to my friend, saying, “Please, can’t you pray for us?” They evidently had little confidence in their own petitions or perhaps sensed their unworthiness to call for divine aid. The irony of the situation is that my friend, having been tempted against his better judgment to do something of which he felt the Lord would not approve, says of his predicament: “I had no prayer to offer. All I could think of was the headline in the newspaper saying, ‘Stake President Drowns While Fishing on Sunday.’”God went to quite a bit of trouble so that you could have the gospel, and now the prophet is telling you that you had better pay attention because these things are for your happiness and that the “rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow” We find joy in the Church in singing with fervor the great hymn “We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet” ( no. 196). I have something to say now to those who call themselves faithful and devoted to the gospel. While we are being thankful for a prophet, are we sure we have really listened to what he said? I know we go home from each conference feeling inspired and touched by the messages he has given and by the sermons of all the General Authorities. The real test, however, is what we do after we get home.President Kimball spoke four years ago at the closing session of a general conference stating how impressed he was by the messages and instructions given in the various sermons, that he had made a listing of all the things he needed to remember, and that as soon as he returned home he intended to perfect himself according to all that had been said (see  Nov. 1975, p. 111). Why shouldn’t we all do that? Do you have your garden? Are you providing for the present and future needs of your family? Are you getting out of debt? What is your relationship with the Savior? Do you pray? Do you read the scriptures? Do you pay your tithing? Do you fight with your neighbors? or your wife? or your children?We can ask some special questions of leaders of the Church. It would be a disgrace to criticize you, knowing of your devotion and sacrifice, but let me ask you, Are you really listening to what the prophet says? We know that some of you do more than others. It is five years now since he said that every boy should go on a mission (see  May 1974, p. 87). Why are half of them still at home? Quorum presidents and home teachers, Why are there still so many diseased and sick in spirit? Why have you not “bound up that which was broken, neither … brought again that which was driven away, neither … sought that which was lost”  The Lord has called you through his prophet. Listen to what he says. How you listen to the prophet makes the difference between being a Laman or Lemuel or a Nephi. There are some Lamans in the priesthood of the Church.To all of you of whom I have made mention—unbelievers; nonmembers; members of the Church, both faithful and those not so devoted; and to the leaders; and all who bear the holy priesthood—I declare as one who knows and has authority, that Spencer W. Kimball, President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the prophet of God to all the inhabitants of the earth. He is the direct successor to Isaiah; Malachi; Peter, James, and John; and to Joseph Smith and others in between. He is the chief Apostle of Jesus Christ on the earth and is authorized to announce that the gospel has been restored to the earth in these, the last days, in preparation for the Second Coming and that these are the days to prepare. His is a voice of gladness in the glorious news he bears and a solemn warning to us all. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.