We have an International Mission in the Church, over which Elder Carlos Asay presides. It cares for all the members of the Church who live outside the boundaries of regularly established stakes and missions. This includes the families who live in far-distant countries away from the centers of the Church. These families generally are on assignment with the government or with the military, or work for international corporations.Typical of these is a family down in the Indian Ocean on the island of Réunion. There is a family of eight living in Benghazi, Libya. Another family of five lives in Karachi, Pakistan. For these and many other families there is no organized unit of the Church. They have to teach their own children.Many of these families regularly conduct “church” services. Actually they are “home” services for their family. The mother may gather her small children about her and hold Primary. In this case she serves as the president of the Primary, the counselor, the teacher—and always the janitor. If the family has priesthood-age sons, all the regular priesthood offices somehow merge into one—the father—as he teaches them their duties and ministers to his family.Actually, where the Church is fully organized, priesthood and auxiliary leaders are striving to have all parents teach their children anyway.Often these distant families receive only a few basic materials from the Church. We now have available an excellent basic lesson manual for the men and boys and one for the mothers and daughters, a manual for small children, and a very fine basic manual,  Generally these families receive the Church periodicals and have access to the family home evening manual, and, most important, the standard works of the Church. Activities are planned and centered around their families. In spite of limited materials, if the  teach their children the gospel, these homes may be as blessed as any in the Church.The things that are essential to these homes are essential in every home. In fact, living away from the organized Church  even be a blessing, because family members draw closer together and because they cannot delegate to the Church things that a father and mother should do wherever they live in the world.The Lord organized the family unit in the beginning. He intended that the home be the center of learning—that the father and mother be teachers. He has given counsel that applies whether the family lives within or without the boundaries of an organized unit of the Church. I cite but a few of the scores of verses:“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord” “The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. … I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth” “But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another” “Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it” The Lord fixed families to give parents more influence on children than all other agencies combined. There is safety in this arrangement. It provides  the privilege, the awesome privilege, of molding the life and character of a child, even though outside agencies have influence.Parenthood imposes a singular responsibility. Not only must parents put good things into the minds of children, we must keep bad things out. That is why we have been cautioned against the unrestricted invasion of our homes by the media. While some agencies that have influence on our children are good, some are not. Parental vigilance should be constant. Safeguard your children against those who seek to destroy them.How would you pass the test, parents, if your family was isolated from the Church and  had to supply all religious training? Have you become so dependent on others that you do little or nothing at home? Tell me, how much of the  would your children know, if all they knew is what they had been taught at home? Ponder that. I repeat, how much of the gospel would  children know if all they knew is what they had been taught at home? Remember, the Church exists  Parents, the divine charge to teach has never been changed. Do not abdicate your duty.We have been counseled to become self-reliant and independent temporally. It is as important spiritually! Suppose conditions changed. Suppose you could not receive all the services to which you have become accustomed. Suppose that much more responsibility were placed on your shoulders to care for the spiritual welfare of your family. Surely you cannot study the scriptures without knowing that perilous times are coming. Will you be unaffected?Prepare now! Take steps now to strengthen your family. Spend time together. Establish and maintain family traditions that build happy memories. Maintain a discipline with fair rules and regulations. Express unconditional love to one another through word and act. Develop within each one self-esteem and self-respect by loving and believing in him and having him belong. Provide security that children need. These are the values of which life is made. Establish these, and then we won’t need to worry about the frills that too often concern us.As prophetic events unfold, one thing is certain: we will need to be more self-reliant. We will all need to teach more within the walls of our own homes. In the Book of Mormon we find some models:“I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father”  No doubt Nephi was taught the things of the Spirit—his writings reveal that. He probably was taught practical matters as well, for he was a very resourceful man. Today that son is fortunate whose father teaches him somewhat in  his learning.Enos, son of Jacob, was another who esteemed his father:“I, Enos, knowing my father that he was a just man—for he taught me … in the nurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it. …“Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul” His life of service pivoted on this great spiritual experience. This experience occurred because of the words of his father. These are great models. They are good examples of the power of parental teaching. One thing is essential. Parents and children must spend time together.Some few of us may receive public acclaim for our deeds. Most of us will live out our lives in comparative anonymity. This need not matter. Serve your fellowman. Love and teach your children. Then one day we will merit a tribute from them, which in the eternal plan will mean more than fame or wealth: “I … [was] born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.“Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name”  A salutation with reverence, love, and obedience is invoked in this introduction of a model of prayer given by our Savior himself. Every word is chosen for its particular meaning and inspiring, noble thoughts, elevating our souls to a new level of understanding. We truly have here an expression and example of divine language.Words, sentences, languages: What are they? How do they affect us, our families, and our Heavenly Father?One word—just a single, simple word—can bring a variety of thoughts and influences. A combination of words can make sense or express foolishness.One word could mean approval or denial, blessing or cursing, doubt or knowledge, friendship or enmity. The way we say one word, the intonation we use, may cause love or hate. Words can be harsh, melodious, soft-spoken, announced, or even shouted. They can roll like a wave and enthuse and bring victory and pride. We read in Shakespeare: “Who is it in the press that calls on me? I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music, cry ‘Caesar’” ( act 1, scene 2, lines 15–17). Words can be distilled drop by drop like a poison, or eat away like a cancer. They can be articulated or mumbled; but every time a word is said, watch it, because it can never be retrieved. It is gone with the wind, gone forever.Usually we select our words, sometimes using a particular vocabulary, and we employ certain words because of their meanings and the connotations that we want to project. Usage varies, depending on whether we ask, want, pray, persuade, force, influence, or subdue.Words are a form of personal expression. They differentiate us as well as fingerprints do. They reflect what kind of person we are, and tell of our background, and depict our way of life. They describe our thinking as well as our inner feelings.But where do they come from, and why is language so peculiar? It started in the beginning, as we read in “And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration;“And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled.”Language is of divine origin. Only man speaks (and women do even better), and he does so because of the purpose for which he was created. Let us listen to Paul when he said: “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal”  Anacharsis, when asked what was the best part of man, answered: “The tongue.” When asked what was the worst, the answer was the same: “The tongue.”“Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.“Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.“Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?“Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh” In the Book of Mormon we read that “it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things”  We know by experience, however, what opposition in words can do to individuals, if not controlled. So when we are counseled to be a righteous people, is it only concerning our attitudes? What about corrupted language; foul language; slang; and words evoking evil, dirt, and destruction of the body and soul? The name of Deity is to be used to touch hearts and give light; it is not to be used in vain or to be mocked. Too often, it seems that this kind of language attracts young people and male adults because it is a way in their eyes to be recognized, to look tough or virile. Would this mean that education and manners, charm and reverence are an exclusive feminine matter? What about missionary language that uses words and expression to describe their companions, their investigators, or their leaders in a way that not only sounds disrespectful but also shows a lack of reverence and love?Words can get things done, commitments fulfilled, or miracles accomplished. We may, because of words, be moved to tears or to laughter, feel great or miserable, be exalted or condemned. “Man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live”  Words are sacred in prayer, for example: “Our Heavenly Father”; in sharing a testimony and testifying of the truth: “And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father”  in giving a status: “I am a child of God”; in summarizing a mission: “Charity never faileth”  in showing love to our family members: “I love you.”Words, when expressed by prophets—by a living prophet like Spencer W. Kimball—tell us about the will and the mind of the Lord and are an example of divine language and perfection. “For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner doth the Lord God work among the children of men. For the Lord God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men according to their language, unto their understanding” For example, in one of his recent addresses, President Kimball emphasized the need to learn and know more than our own language. “We need much more language training. We need more people fluent in Mandarin and Cantonese” (Regional Representatives Seminar, 30 March 1979). By studying other languages, we can also improve in our ways to give the message of the restoration of the gospel to the world. The Lord’s people must be distinguished among other nations not only by their calling and behavior, but also by the purity of their language. In Deuteronomy we read: “For thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God: the Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above all people that are upon the face of the earth” Language is divine. Some may know this but do not realize its implications in their daily family life. Love at home starts with a loving language. This need is so important that, without loving words, some become mentally unbalanced, others emotionally disturbed, and some may even die. No society can survive after its family life has deteriorated, and this deterioration has always started with one word—one single, simple word.My prayer is that as children of our Heavenly Father we can glorify him and his Son Jesus Christ with better words of love and appreciation to our loved ones and our neighbors in a language pure and undefiled and with a desire to communicate in a divine way.Our Heavenly Father lives; his Son is Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer; his prophet on earth today is Spencer W. Kimball; he is the mouthpiece of the Lord. May His holy name be sanctified by our words forever and ever, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.