While flying from Erie to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, several years ago, I sat next to the minister of a large Protestant church. He was dressed in the garb of the clergy, so was easy to identify. After I had introduced myself as a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he asked, “Do you know what we ministers talk about when we meet together? We talk about the Mormons. We see the young and the elderly, teenagers, small children, and the newly married crowding into your chapels. Every age-group seems comfortable and happy being together in your church.” I explained how we are concerned about people of all ages.That experience reminded me of the difficulty Moses had persuading Pharaoh to let the Israelites leave Egypt. One plague followed another until the Egyptian ruler finally gave in. After being threatened with hordes of locusts, Pharaoh agreed to let the men go if Moses would leave the women, the young, and the old behind. (See However, Moses insisted that all should go. He said, “We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go”  Moses refused to divide the people of God.All ages would share the adventure and the dangers together, just as our own pioneers did 132 years ago during their great exodus. The solidarity of the people of all ages is God’s way of doing things. It is our way because it is his way.Life is not stationary. Seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, and years all tick away at the same clip for everyone. No age-group can be isolated. None of us can settle into infancy, youth, middle age, or old age. We all  older, and, incidentally, it is an exciting thought if the accent is on  “Though our outward man perish,” said Paul, “yet the inward man is renewed ”  italics added).I cannot think on my own life without feeling deep gratitude for the older people who have walked and talked with me. A great-aunt taught me many lessons in her own sensitive way. A lovely grandmother has influenced not only her own grandchildren, but also many of their friends. A patriarch, by living righteously and by giving a beautiful blessing, changed the course of a young man’s life. Elder LeGrand Richards’s powerful voice and testimony have brought the truth of the gospel to all who will listen, and a few others besides. Our great prophet-leader, President Kimball, has influenced so many of us through his dedication and incredible energy.All are needed; all are to serve. Those of you with experience and maturity, who have seen the Great Depression, the ravages of two world wars, a society that has emerged from the horse and buggy era to silver Concordes splitting the sky at 1,400 miles an hour have so much to offer. It is to you, the elderly, I address my brief comments.Few men whose names occur in the New Testament have so little said about them as did Mnason. His name appears only once: “one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge”  As the early missionaries traveled, they wanted to be with an elderly disciple, one with whom they felt comfortable. Apparently, they were seeking his wisdom and his knowledge.“I can almost hear some of our older members of the Church inquiring.First, take time with the Savior. If you feel you do not know him yet, then think of him often. Read about him. Invite him in. It is never too late to make a friend, and he is the best friend you will ever have.Second, tell of past decades when life was different. Keep alive the recollection of your struggles and achievements. Take time to share the truths that never change. Show how solutions to problems sixty, seventy, and eighty years ago are just as valid and helpful now as they were then. We need to learn from you.Third, look to your ancestors. Temple doors stand open bidding you welcome. So many need you to perform their earthly ordinances. The extra time you often have enables you to bless those who need you to do their earthly work for them. They are waiting for you.Fourth, there is so much for you to do in the mission field, either as a couple or, if you do not have a mate, as an elder or sister missionary. It is true, you will not be tracting quite like the younger missionaries, or at least not as long, but you will be influencing the inactive, providing welfare service instruction, serving in our visitors centers, meeting the town fathers, and helping those that need your leadership example, your judgment, and your ability to teach. Investigators in Stuttgart, West Germany; Hermosillo, Mexico; Williamsport, Pennsylvania; and Rocky Ford, Colorado, will listen and, yes, be baptized because of you.Fifth, realize that you  needed and loved and that you  be useful to many in so many positive ways. Only too often an elderly person will retreat into a state of feeling unneeded, left out, or even passed by or rejected. Usually nothing could be further from the truth. Please communicate openly so we will know of your feelings.Sixth, hold family home evening. If you are now alone, invite friends to stop by each Monday night. If you feel lonely, others probably do, too. Loneliness can only be dispelled by helping others feel less lonely. Family home evening is an ideal opportunity to share, to worship, and to heal.Seventh, whenever possible, walk each day. Enjoy this lovely world that the Savior has provided, and invite others to walk with you, sharing the beauties and miracles of nature together. “Add life to your years, not just years to life” (“The Problem of Old Age,”  23 July 1966).Eighth, for heaven’s sake, forget your regrets. The many years you have lived have been filled both with success and with experiences you might change if you could. But you can’t, so stop any self-inflicted sadness or despair. When the Savior said, “Judge not,” he was speaking, in part, about your relationship with yourself (see  Live the repentant life happily. The scripture “Men are, that they might have joy”  applies to you right now.Bernard Baruch, on his eighty-fifth birthday, said (in a news report dated 20 August 1955), “To me, old age is always fifteen years older than I am.” Yes, there is much for you to do.Shifting now to a different perspective, those who are younger may ask, “What can we do?”First, it is certainly our responsibility to keep in touch with you our parents, our grandparents, and elderly friends, to say hello and to express our love for your influence. Perhaps we should place a telephone call this afternoon or write a letter or note to say “remember when”—and then—thank you dad, mom, bishop, teacher, or friend.Second, we must develop a partner relationship with you that will help all of us serve better in the kingdom by serving together. You stake presidents, bishops, quorum presidents, and auxiliary leaders are to call our older members to positions of meaningful responsibility. Can any of us imagine what the body of the General Authorities would be like without those magnificent men in their eighties and nineties who inspire, teach, and help carry the kingdom forward?Third, we must listen carefully to what you older and often wiser people have to say. A listening heart is a loving heart. Please forgive our impatience and may we concentrate upon your counsel.Fourth, we must be certain as we hurry through life that we tend to your needs as you have so kindly tended and cared for our needs through decades of patience and love. May we wipe away your tears as you have so skillfully and lovingly wiped away ours.In closing, I say to you—our elder mentors, our examples, some of our dearest friends—thank you, and may we be one, as the Father and the Son are one, I pray in the blessed name of Jesus Christ, amen.It is an inspiration to all of us to remember the teachings of our Savior and the many wonderful things he gave to the world. He lived long before recorded history. He was in the great council in heaven—he helped his Father in the shaping of the heavens, in the creation of the earth, and in the making of man, the latter being in response to the request of the Father when he said: “Let us … form man in our own image, after our likeness” In opposition to Satan’s plan of compulsion, it was He who supported the Father’s plan of free agency—thus providing the right of choice which means so much to all of us.He lived on earth in the meridian of time in the promised land.He was born far away from home and was cradled in a manger.He went about teaching and doing good. Men followed him, not for worldly riches but to gain treasures in heaven.He set up a new code for living—to love one another, even one’s enemies. He enjoined us to judge not, to forgive, and to give all men a second chance.Think what a change this would make in the world today if we as individuals and the nations of the earth could live up to this code. We have often heard people say, “Well, I will forgive, but I won’t forget,” which, of course, means they do not forgive.In Doctrine and Covenants 64:8–11  the Lord tells us that it is our duty to forgive one another, and that he who does not forgive his brother stands condemned and is the In Matthew 22:36–39  we read about an instance where Christ was approached by some of the leading lawyers of the day, one of whom said:“Master, which is the great commandment in the law?“Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.“This is the first and great commandment.“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”Can a man reach the celestial kingdom if he does not love his neighbor as himself? When Jesus gave the second commandment, he said it was like unto the first, and repeating both, he said:“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets” He made them very important—so important that all other laws and commandments rest upon them.Let us ask another question. Can a man live the first and great commandment if he does not live the second? In other words, can he love God with all his heart if he does not love his fellow men? The answer is obvious.John the Apostle said:“If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?“And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also” In 3 Nephi 11:29–30  we find this statement:“For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”With all of these statements, it should be perfectly clear to everyone that the Lord desires us to love and forgive one another. It behooves all of us to conquer our pride and make every effort to settle all differences with our fellowmen. As just quoted from 3 Nephi, contentions and disputations are of the devil and are not approved by our Heavenly Father. Loving our neighbors as ourselves will bring joy and happiness into our lives.Christ lived to bless, heal, and restore. He was a peacemaker. On many occasions he healed the sick, the lame, and the blind. Yes, as we have been told earlier today, he even raised the dead.After all these things, he was forced to carry his own cross to Calvary. He forgave those who would take his life. At the very time when he was suffering the most, he said:“Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do” He died that we might have everlasting life. In  it is recorded that he proclaimed: “I am the Resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.”He rose from the grave to triumph over death and to bless the world with resurrection.The gospel provides us with a beautiful plan of salvation. We know that we come to earth to obtain a body, gain knowledge, and develop skills and character. We also come here so we can learn to overcome evil and see if we can remain true and faithful and be sufficiently diligent and obedient to the commandments so as to be worthy to return and abide in his presence.Today, as I contemplate the many, many blessings that have been given to us, I recall the words of King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon when, after enumerating the blessings which had been poured down upon his people by the Lord, he said this:“And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments” Yes, the only thing the Lord requires of us is that we keep his commandments! This sounds relatively simple, doesn’t it? But we all know that it isn’t simple nor was it intended to be. Where much is given, much is expected. The Lord requires of those who dwell with him the ability to overcome weaknesses and imperfections. He requires self-denial and self-discipline. No, it isn’t simple, but the Lord has given us many suggestions and instructions to help us keep his commandments.Some of us may feel from time to time that some of his commandments are an impediment to happiness in this life, but this isn’t so; and deep down in our hearts we all know that so long as we adhere to these commandments, just as surely as night follows day, we will reap the blessings that are promised to the faithful. Remember, the Lord said:“I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise” Sometimes the way of fulfillment may not be apparent to us, but the actuality of it is assured.How many of us on Judgment Day would like to be told that we had failed to do our part—that we had been unworthy servants of the Lord because our own lives had been such a poor example? In  the Lord gives us a very important message:“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.”To fail to keep the commandments of the Lord not only brings condemnation, but actually deprives us of many blessings here on this earth—to say nothing of those eternal blessings for which we are all striving. In  we read this important statement: “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the ” (italics added).And finally, the great promise given to all men:“And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God” In closing, I would like to bear testimony that the Father and the Son did appear to Joseph Smith and gave him instructions pertaining to the restoration of the true gospel of Jesus Christ. I also testify that our leader today, President Spencer W. Kimball, and his counselors are true prophets of God. We would all do well to follow them in the path of truth and righteousness.I pray that these brethren may be blessed with inspiration at all times. Further, that our Heavenly Father will grant them health and strength sufficient to carry out their heavy responsibilities. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.