It is an inspiration to all of us to remember the teachings of our Savior and the many wonderful things he gave to the world. He lived long before recorded history. He was in the great council in heaven—he helped his Father in the shaping of the heavens, in the creation of the earth, and in the making of man, the latter being in response to the request of the Father when he said: “Let us … form man in our own image, after our likeness” In opposition to Satan’s plan of compulsion, it was He who supported the Father’s plan of free agency—thus providing the right of choice which means so much to all of us.He lived on earth in the meridian of time in the promised land.He was born far away from home and was cradled in a manger.He went about teaching and doing good. Men followed him, not for worldly riches but to gain treasures in heaven.He set up a new code for living—to love one another, even one’s enemies. He enjoined us to judge not, to forgive, and to give all men a second chance.Think what a change this would make in the world today if we as individuals and the nations of the earth could live up to this code. We have often heard people say, “Well, I will forgive, but I won’t forget,” which, of course, means they do not forgive.In Doctrine and Covenants 64:8–11  the Lord tells us that it is our duty to forgive one another, and that he who does not forgive his brother stands condemned and is the In Matthew 22:36–39  we read about an instance where Christ was approached by some of the leading lawyers of the day, one of whom said:“Master, which is the great commandment in the law?“Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.“This is the first and great commandment.“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.”Can a man reach the celestial kingdom if he does not love his neighbor as himself? When Jesus gave the second commandment, he said it was like unto the first, and repeating both, he said:“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets” He made them very important—so important that all other laws and commandments rest upon them.Let us ask another question. Can a man live the first and great commandment if he does not live the second? In other words, can he love God with all his heart if he does not love his fellow men? The answer is obvious.John the Apostle said:“If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?“And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also” In 3 Nephi 11:29–30  we find this statement:“For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”With all of these statements, it should be perfectly clear to everyone that the Lord desires us to love and forgive one another. It behooves all of us to conquer our pride and make every effort to settle all differences with our fellowmen. As just quoted from 3 Nephi, contentions and disputations are of the devil and are not approved by our Heavenly Father. Loving our neighbors as ourselves will bring joy and happiness into our lives.Christ lived to bless, heal, and restore. He was a peacemaker. On many occasions he healed the sick, the lame, and the blind. Yes, as we have been told earlier today, he even raised the dead.After all these things, he was forced to carry his own cross to Calvary. He forgave those who would take his life. At the very time when he was suffering the most, he said:“Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do” He died that we might have everlasting life. In  it is recorded that he proclaimed: “I am the Resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.”He rose from the grave to triumph over death and to bless the world with resurrection.The gospel provides us with a beautiful plan of salvation. We know that we come to earth to obtain a body, gain knowledge, and develop skills and character. We also come here so we can learn to overcome evil and see if we can remain true and faithful and be sufficiently diligent and obedient to the commandments so as to be worthy to return and abide in his presence.Today, as I contemplate the many, many blessings that have been given to us, I recall the words of King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon when, after enumerating the blessings which had been poured down upon his people by the Lord, he said this:“And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments” Yes, the only thing the Lord requires of us is that we keep his commandments! This sounds relatively simple, doesn’t it? But we all know that it isn’t simple nor was it intended to be. Where much is given, much is expected. The Lord requires of those who dwell with him the ability to overcome weaknesses and imperfections. He requires self-denial and self-discipline. No, it isn’t simple, but the Lord has given us many suggestions and instructions to help us keep his commandments.Some of us may feel from time to time that some of his commandments are an impediment to happiness in this life, but this isn’t so; and deep down in our hearts we all know that so long as we adhere to these commandments, just as surely as night follows day, we will reap the blessings that are promised to the faithful. Remember, the Lord said:“I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise” Sometimes the way of fulfillment may not be apparent to us, but the actuality of it is assured.How many of us on Judgment Day would like to be told that we had failed to do our part—that we had been unworthy servants of the Lord because our own lives had been such a poor example? In  the Lord gives us a very important message:“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.”To fail to keep the commandments of the Lord not only brings condemnation, but actually deprives us of many blessings here on this earth—to say nothing of those eternal blessings for which we are all striving. In  we read this important statement: “Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the ” (italics added).And finally, the great promise given to all men:“And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God” In closing, I would like to bear testimony that the Father and the Son did appear to Joseph Smith and gave him instructions pertaining to the restoration of the true gospel of Jesus Christ. I also testify that our leader today, President Spencer W. Kimball, and his counselors are true prophets of God. We would all do well to follow them in the path of truth and righteousness.I pray that these brethren may be blessed with inspiration at all times. Further, that our Heavenly Father will grant them health and strength sufficient to carry out their heavy responsibilities. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.What would you think of a man who would chop up a beautiful grand piano to make firewood or use an expensive hand calculator to pry open a desk drawer? Such destructive use of valuable resources is unthinkable, yet there are so many in the world today who more tragically misuse the priceless resources of mind and body and spirit.If every day seems devoid of real satisfaction and meaning, if the things you want most in life seem unobtainable, or if in despair you have turned to the wrong things in an attempt to find happiness and companionship, we have for you a message of hope and assurance. Since it is based on religious principles that you at present may not fully understand, please do not reject it, for with all the conviction of my soul I know that it will bring you what you most desire.The Lord inspired a prophet to declare, “Men are, that they might have joy”  that is, happiness now and forever. But you say, “How can you find happiness? So many give advice, but often it is confusing and expressed in terms and concepts I don’t understand.”God knew that his children would face this challenge, so he provided an unfailing way to recognize his true plan for happiness.I will illustrate that way by a simple example. Let this box represent the world. I have hidden two magnets in it, one to represent the truth, the other error. There is a powerful influence radiating from the magnets, but you cannot see it nor can you feel it, any more than we can see with our eyes or feel with our hands the difference between truth and error. If I use another magnet as a detecting instrument, I can identify unerringly the magnet representing truth. The magnet is drawn to it. Likewise, I can find the magnet representing error, for it is repelled from it.Every individual born to earth is given a detecting capability, a divinely appointed gift to distinguish truth from error. We call it our conscience. God calls it the Spirit of Christ. When we properly use this gift, we are naturally drawn to truth and repelled from error.Satan does not want us to use that divine gift. He camouflages his true purpose behind appealing temptations. His program is to turn our interest to self. He wants us to become so engrossed in the attempt to satisfy personal appetites and desires that we lose the ability to distinguish truth from error. Such a course of life does not, cannot, will not ever bring happiness.If I place a barrier about this magnet or detecting instrument I can no longer distinguish between the influences of the magnet representing truth and the magnet representing error. In like manner, if we yield to temptations or do not obey God’s commandments through indifference or disbelief, we build barriers around our conscience and neutralize its effectiveness so that it becomes difficult and eventually virtually impossible to distinguish truth from error.The Lord gave his life that each one of us, through the miracle of repentance, could remove the barriers of sin and thereby resensitize our conscience so that it may again detect truth from error.Now may I discuss another divine gift with you? It has a potential infinitely more sensitive and powerful than our conscience. Through this gift we can receive pure truth to guide our lives, divine counsel to resolve our problems, and even the power of God to overcome obstacles. It is the gift of the Holy Ghost.May I tell you how to obtain this precious gift? Or if you have it, how to expand your use of it? The Lord has said, “Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you”  When you ask with real intent, you will feel undeniable impressions that lead you to greater truth. You will be given opportunities, such as through the inspired messages of this conference, to find the one and only true Church of Jesus Christ, and you will recognize that Church.By qualifying through study, prayer, and obedience you can be baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands.The Savior has said, “Ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit [or Holy Ghost] testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men” God did not put us on earth to be victimized by circumstances. He gave us a plan for assured success—his gospel—the perfect plan for happiness.We must learn to judge ourselves not by what we are but by what, under the influence of the Lord, we may become. We do not have to measure our potential for success by our known capabilities alone. We can count on the power of God and its expanding influence on our lives. We can know that our ability and strength can be magnified to meet any challenge that confronts us.When we receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, we must strive to become increasingly sensitive to its singular influence in our lives. Prayer is our communication link with God. He answers earnest prayer through the Holy Ghost, which brings inspiration, direction, and power into our lives.We always see the guideposts in our life more clearly after we have passed them and have reached a higher vantage point. If we were more alert to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we would see them before we reach them and thereby be guided more effectively. This process requires self-mastery, self-control, and a heart willing to accept change.Salvation is an eternal goal we gain by a process of constant upward change. Doubt is spiritual poison that stunts eternal growth. We must first feel our way before we can see it with any clarity. We prove ourselves by making numerous correct decisions without being absolutely sure; then comes a greater knowledge and assurance, not before.Happiness is created. Love is its center. Its principal ingredients are sincere faith, true repentance, full obedience, and selfless service.As the magnet in my example was drawn to the influence representing truth, so can you, through faith and prayer, positively identify the kingdom of God on earth.Find a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a Mormon, and ask for the restored truth. Obtain a copy of the Book of Mormon, read it, ponder it, live its principles, and you will find happiness now and forever.With all the sincerity of my soul, in deep humility, I solemnly testify that God the Father through his Son Jesus Christ has restored to earth the fulness of his truth. He has restored his priesthood, the authority to perform the necessary saving ordinances in his name. President Spencer W. Kimball is his prophet. I love him and sustain him with all my heart. I testify that this, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the only place on earth where that fulness of truth and priesthood authority can be found. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.