Those who believe in the Bible should not find it difficult to accept the experience related by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the visit of an ancient American prophet, Moroni. It happened on the evening of 21 September 1823, in Manchester, New York. Joseph Smith related:“While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor.“He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. … His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. …“Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance [was] truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me.” In the conversation that ensued, Moroni instructed Joseph Smith regarding valuable records he had deposited in the earth fourteen centuries before. Among other things, he quoted from the book of Malachi, with some deviation as follows:“Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.“… And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.” How could the gravity of this important message be more dramatically emphasized? We should not dismiss it lightly. It places upon our shoulders a sacred responsibility.On 3 April 1836, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery had a most glorious manifestation in the Kirtland Temple. The resurrected Christ appeared before them. Joseph Smith’s description of the Savior on that occasion is one of the most precious of our scriptures (see  Then Moses appeared and committed to them the keys of the gathering of Israel; then Elias, who committed the dispensation of the gospel; and finally, the prophet Elijah, who announced:“The time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—“To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse” What glorious experiences these must have been as those of ancient days appeared and committed the keys necessary to accomplish the work of salvation in these latter days.From that day to this, the Saints, whenever circumstances permitted, and even when they didn’t, have built temples, searched out their ancestors, prepared a genealogical record, and performed the necessary saving ordinances for their own salvation and that of their progenitors. This is the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers, about which both Elijah and Malachi spoke.We have been given the responsibility by the Lord to do this work for all those who have passed on. Laws of privacy are such that we presently do temple work only for those who died beyond ninety-five years ago, except at the initiation of family members.We estimate that there are available written records existing of the names and vital statistics of about 6 billion persons who died before  1900. Nearly all of those names are for people who lived between  1200 and 1900. Of these, we have microfilmed the records of about 1 billion and have completed the temple work for about 57 million. We estimate that there are 2.5 billion records of individuals available to acquire at this time, and another 2.5 billion that we anticipate will become available as the doors to other nations open to us. We are currently microfilming and storing in our vault 100 million additional names each year. Considering the value and perishability of these records, this is a great service not only to the Church but to the entire world.For many years we relied mainly upon family and individual genealogical research for obtaining names for proxy temple work. Beyond a few close generations, gathering names by family genealogical research is slow and inefficient. For example, in a recent presentation, Elder J. Thomas Fyans estimated that he has as many as 348 third cousins who have the same second-great-grandfather (see  Nov. 1978, p. 28). If each were to be searching for information on that same person, there would be untold duplication of effort.We commend you, and all of those who have gone before, who have so diligently researched your ancestry. Your effort, your faith, and your diligence have established a solid foundation for this work to proceed. You have earned the reputation for the city in which our Church is headquartered as being the genealogical center of the world. This reputation you have built has opened doors for the work to expand that may have otherwise remained closed.It is unlikely that we can accomplish the temple work that must be done if we continue to rely upon individual research alone. In recent years we have moved into the computer age. New technology is progressing rapidly. The time has come for us to take advantage of this remarkable mechanism which the Lord has made available to us.Last year we announced the name extraction program. Stakes have set up units to extract names for use in the temples from microfilm furnished from our storage vaults. The progress has been gratifying. We are optimistic that improving technology will result in a further reduction of unit cost and effort to enable us to accomplish even more.Members have inquired as to what their role is  in fulfilling this charge given to us by the Lord through his prophets. Our answer is—The televising of the film series “Roots,” and more recently “Roots II,” has stirred an interest in personal and family histories that the experts believe is here to stay. One of the major television networks recently expressed this belief and with our cooperation has filmed a documentary on this subject. In 1980, our World Conference on Records will be oriented toward the writing of personal and family histories. This will give members of the Church and others the opportunity of learning how it can be done from experts the world over.Have you ever dreamed of belonging to a royal family? A royal family has the authority to be such—received from one who has a right to bestow such an honor. You likely have a person holding such a dignified honor right in your own home. The Apostle Peter, addressing the Saints of his day, said, “Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people”  Don’t you have this same royal priesthood in your home?A royal family is a family whose members are honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, temperate, patient, charitable, humble, diligent, well read, and law-abiding. The Lord has cautioned, “But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth”  He also instructed us, “And they shall … teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord”  He further said, “Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith” A royal family is a family of well-disciplined parents and children who control their appetites. The Lord promises those who do so, “And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, … shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures” A royal family is a family that is exemplary. They set a pattern for other families to follow. The Savior said, speaking to his faithful followers:“Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.“Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.“Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” A royal family is a family that has a heritage. Many of our Church families have a pioneer heritage. There are many other kinds of heritages inherited by other families of the Church of which they can be duly proud. In our society a heritage is best perpetuated by a family history. Family histories should be kept up to date by succeeding generations. In addition, each member of the family should keep a daily journal, and from that he can prepare a personal history. President Kimball kept a personal journal, and from that was written a personal history that has made a valuable contribution to the literature of the Church.A personal history becomes a family treasure that enables children to emulate the virtues and personal characteristics of their forebears. Their forefathers become the David, the Samson, the Moses, and the Abraham of their lineage. Writing family and personal histories is becoming the popular thing to do. More and more people throughout the world are becoming interested in this exciting pastime to them, but sacred responsibility to us. The hearts of the children are indeed turning to the fathers.A royal family is not necessarily confined to the political kingdoms ruling the nations of the world. You too can belong to a royal family. If you have not already done those things that will make it so, start today, so that coming generations in your family will be faithful to those principles which characterize royalty in the kingdom of God. The self-discipline you exercise will enrich your life and the lives of your family members. That you may build this enrichment into your family to be perpetuated for generations to come, that we, indeed, may be a chosen people, a royal priesthood—yes, a royal family in the kingdom of God—so that the world will not be wasted at his coming, I pray. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.President Wilford Woodruff once had a remarkable experience to which I would like to refer. He first publicly mentioned the incident at general conference in October of 1880. Sixteen years later he gave further details in a discourse delivered at the Weber Stake conference, and his remarks were published in  In the 1880 conference President Woodruff told of dreams he had after the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith in which he conversed with the Prophet many times. He then related another dream in which he talked with Brigham Young, and this is what he said about it:“I saw Brother Brigham and Brother Heber ride in [a] carriage ahead of the carriage in which I rode when I was on my way to attend conference; and they were dressed in the most priestly robes. When we arrived at our destination I asked Prest. Young if he would preach to us. He said, ‘No, I have finished my testimony in the flesh I shall not talk to this people any more. But (said he) I have come to see you; I have come to watch over you, and to see what the people are doing. Then (said he) I want you to teach the people—and I want you to follow this counsel yourself—that they must labor and so live as to obtain the Holy Spirit, for without this you cannot build up the kingdom; without the spirit of God you are in danger of walking in the dark, and in danger of failing to accomplish your calling as apostles and as elders in the church and kingdom of God. And, said he, Brother Joseph taught me this principle.’” ( 21:318.)President Woodruff then went on to say of that experience, as he spoke at the Weber Stake conference, essentially what I want to say today: “Every man and woman in this Church should labor to get that Spirit. We are surrounded by these evil spirits that are at war against God and against everything looking to the building up of the kingdom of God; and we need this Holy Spirit to enable us to overcome these influences.” ( 7 Nov. 1896, p. 643.)Continuing his discourse, President Woodruff told of his missionary experiences. He said: “In the time of the apostasy in Kirtland … the Spirit of God said to me, ‘You choose a partner and go straight to Fox Islands.’ Well, I knew no more what was on Fox Islands than what was on Kolob. But the Lord told me to go, and I went. I chose Jonathan H. Hale, and he went with me. … Through the blessings of God I brought nearly a hundred from there up to Zion, at the time the Saints were driven out of Missouri into Illinois.“So it has been all through my life. If I have undertaken to do anything, and the Lord has wanted me to do something else, He has had to tell me. When we were sent to England, we were sent by revelation. I went into the Staffordshire potteries with Brother Alfred Cordon. We were doing a splendid work, baptizing almost every night, and I thought it was the finest mission I ever was on. I went into the town of Hanley one night, and attended meeting in a large hall, which was filled to overflowing. The Spirit of the Lord came upon me and said that that was the last meeting I should hold with that people for many days. I told the people that that was the last meeting I should be with them. After the meeting, they asked me where I was going. I told them I did not know. In the morning I asked the Lord what He wanted of me. He merely said, ‘Go to the south.’ I got into the stage and rode eighty miles. The first man’s house I stopped at was John Benbow’s in Herefordshire. In half an hour after I entered the house I knew exactly why the Lord had sent me. There was a people there who had been praying for the ancient order of things. They were waiting for the Gospel as it was taught by Christ and His Apostles. The consequence was, the first thirty days after I got there I baptized six hundred of those people. In eight month’s labor in that country I brought eighteen hundred into the Church. Why? Because there was a people prepared for the Gospel, and the Lord sent me there to do that work. I have always had to give God the glory for everything good that has happened to me; for I have realized by what power it came.” ( 7 Nov. 1896, p. 643.)President Woodruff concludes with these words: “I refer to these things because I want you to get the same Spirit. All the Elders of Israel, whether abroad or at home, need that Spirit. … This is the Spirit that we must have to carry out the purposes of God on the earth. We need that more than any other gift. … We are in the midst of enemies, in the midst of darkness and temptation, and we need to be guided by the Spirit of God. We should pray to the Lord until we get the Comforter. This is what is promised to us when we are baptized. It is the spirit of light, of truth, and of revelation and can be with all of us at the same time.” ( 7 Nov. 1896, p. 643.)Developing spirituality and attuning ourselves to the highest influences of godliness is not an easy matter. It takes time and frequently involves a struggle. It will not happen by chance, but is accomplished only through deliberate effort and by calling upon God and keeping his commandments.The Apostle Paul spent much of his life teaching and encouraging spirituality in the then far-flung missions of the world. He frequently used terminology from the sports, games, and athletic contests. He said that a Saint successfully keeping the commandments is like an athlete winning his contest; that comparable degrees of training, exertion, obedience to the rules, self-discipline, and the will to win are involved. To the Corinthians he wrote words, which paraphrased, are to this effect: “You know (do you not?) that at the sports all the runners run the race, though only one wins the prize. Like them, run to win! Now every athlete goes into strict training. They do it to win a perishable wreath, but our wreath will last forever. For my part I run with a clear goal before me. (See Along this same line he said to Timothy, his beloved young friend and missionary companion:“I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only; but unto all them also that love his appearing.” Taking the athletic contest to what was in ancient times the ultimate experience—a hand-to-hand battle to the death—Paul wrote this statement regarding such physical combat:“Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.“For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.“Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.“Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;“And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;“Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.“And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:“Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints.” The Prophet Joseph Smith did not speak in such athletic or military terms, but he has given us perhaps the clearest statement of all on the need to become spiritual as well as the time and patience which we must recognize are part of the process. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: “We consider that God has created man with a mind capable of instruction, and a faculty which may be enlarged in proportion to the heed and diligence given to the light communicated from heaven to the intellect; and that the nearer man approaches perfection, the clearer are his views, and the greater his enjoyments, till he has overcome the evils of his life and lost every desire for sin; and like the ancients, arrives at that point of faith where he is wrapped in the power and glory of his Maker, and is caught up to dwell with Him. But we consider that this is a station to which no man ever arrived in a moment.” ( 2:8.)Part of our difficulty as we strive to acquire spirituality is the feeling that there is much to do and that we are falling far short. Perfection is something yet ahead for every one of us; but we can capitalize on our strengths, begin where we are, and seek after the happiness that can be found in pursuing the things of God. We should remember the Lord’s counsel:“Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great.“Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days.” It has always been encouraging to me that the Lord said it is the “willing and obedient [who] shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days.” All of us can be willing and obedient. If the Lord had said the perfect shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days, I suppose some of us would be discouraged and give up.The Prophet Joseph said, “Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God.” ( 5:134–35).The place to begin is here. The time to start is now. The length of our stride need be but one step at a time. God, who has, “designed our happiness,” will lead us along even as little children, and we will by that process approach perfection.None of us has attained perfection or the zenith of spiritual growth that is possible in mortality. Every person can and must make spiritual progress. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the divine plan for that spiritual growth eternally. It is more than a code of ethics. It is more than an ideal social order. It is more than positive thinking about self-improvement and determination. The gospel is the saving power of the Lord Jesus Christ with his priesthood and sustenance and with the Holy Spirit. With faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and obedience to his gospel, a step at a time improving as we go, pleading for strength, improving our attitudes and our ambitions, we will find ourselves successfully in the fold of the Good Shepherd. That will require discipline and training and exertion and strength. But as the Apostle Paul said, “I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.” A modern-day revelation makes this promise: “Put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good—yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit.“Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy;“And then shall ye know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that ye shall receive.” May we follow the counsel to so labor and so live as to obtain the Spirit of God, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.