This anniversary of the Church is of great importance to the Latter-day Saints.One reason is that it allows us to see ourselves in perspective. It helps us to measure our growth. It shows us the direction we have come over the last 150 years and now points like a compass to the future.With the ancient scriptures in our hands and the teachings of modern prophets constantly before us, we chart the course which the Lord expects us to follow.By restoration from heaven we have received the everlasting gospel brought back to earth by angelic ministration as foretold by the prophets who saw our time. With it we were given the Book of Mormon, which is an amazing volume of ancient American prophetic writing. More than a million copies are published each year as we take it worldwide.Our missionary system has increased from about a dozen men in 1830 to an army of nearly thirty thousand today. Our membership doubles every fifteen years. Our four million will soon be eight million. Our stakes and missions now exceed thirteen hundred in number in about eighty different nations. We have twelve thousand local congregations in forty-six languages.We operate hundreds of seminaries and institutes for the daily study of the gospel. We also have some elementary schools and colleges. Our great Brigham Young University is recognized in many lands for its superior accomplishments. Knowing that the glory of both God and man is intelligence, we advocate good education.We have a welfare program which is the envy of nations. We make an earnest effort to care for our own with no expense to taxpayers. For this purpose we have hundreds of projects which not only provide the necessities of life for the needy among us, but employment also, including jobs for the handicapped.Our temple work moves forward magnificently. We are building additional temples in various parts of the world as we take the ordinances of salvation to more and more people. The service rendered in those holy structures exceeds anything ever known in the past.We take humble pride in the rapid growth, the marvelous accomplishments, and the stability of our people. “By their fruits ye shall know them,” the Savior taught  Our fruits bear testimony of our devotion to Almighty God, of our firm commitment to carry on his modern ministry, and of the validity of the message which we bear.And what is our message?First and foremost, it is that God  live, that he is our Eternal Father and our Creator. All human beings are his offspring. Knowing this, we accept the commandment of the Savior to perfect ourselves so that we may be like him.Next we affirm that Jesus of Nazareth is indeed the Christ—he who was born in Bethlehem on the first Christmas; he who answered the questions of the doctors in the temple when but twelve years old; he who was baptized of John; he who walked the plains of Palestine preaching his gospel, healing many who were sick, and raising some of the dead; he who was persecuted by the religious cults of the day, was condemned to the cross, but who conquered death and the grave in a glorious resurrection on the third day afterward.He  the Savior of mankind! He  the Redeemer of all flesh! He  arise from the grave. He  risen, as the angel said, in physical, corporeal reality. And he lives today! Our modern prophets have seen him face to face and have talked with him. We know that he lives and by his resurrection he will also give to each of us a victory over death, for we too shall be resurrected—physically and literally. We too shall live again. That is our testimony on this Easter day.We testify also that Christ has spoken again in our day, that he has raised up new prophets and through them has reestablished his Church on earth as it was originally when he called Peter, James, and John, Thomas, Judas, and others into the ministry.The divine gospel was lost over the centuries, human philosophies displaced revealed doctrine, and the holy priesthood was taken away. But now it is all restored! We testify that it  restored! Revelation again comes from heaven. Prophets once more walk among us, and the truth is offered freely to all who will listen. God’s modern dispensation now shines as a brilliant ensign to the nations, just as the prophets foretold.But as it shines, opposition grows. As truth is spread abroad, deceit and dishonesty arise to oppose it. As virtue is taught by the servants of God, unchastity increases among the ungodly. Indeed, as the Prophet Lehi said, “There is an opposition in all things”  and as truth manifests itself, the adversary seeks to strike it down.In a very real sense it is a war—a hot war—a war between right and wrong, between the powers of heaven and the forces of Lucifer.The scriptures warn that the devil will make war with the Saints of God, but he never can and he never will overcome them. He will attack them with all the wicked devices his pornographic mind can devise, but he never will stop God’s work.This is not a war for territory or wealth; it is a contest for the eternal souls of men and women, boys and girls, the literal offspring of God, our Heavenly Father.Our forces are strong. We have had many glorious victories and will yet have more. Our task is to save all who will listen.God’s work and glory are the same: “To bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  We work together in partnership with him.But how many of us realize how serious this conflict is? Do we measure its effect upon our own family circles? Do we understand what the devil is trying to do to us? Do we recognize his evil emissaries for what they are when they openly assail us or when they seek deceitfully to seduce us quietly?Seduction is his greatest weapon. Do we realize that? I repeat: seduction is the greatest weapon of the devil. It is alluring; it falsely appears to be advantageous and desirable. He would have us think that bitter is sweet, that black is white, that sin is acceptable, that virtue is obsolete, archaic, and prudish.Because he revels in filth, he would tell us that to be clean is some naive concept of our grandmother’s age which does not apply in this enlightened day. He says that evil is good and that standards have been relaxed. “Go your way,” he says; “fear no consequences; do your own thing; have fun; express your basest desires if you wish, and let yourselves go!” That is his philosophy.Do we recognize it when it is flung at us by our angry foes or when it comes with a soft voice and a disarming smile? Do we truly recognize evil when we see it? Do we really know right from wrong? If we do not, then let us hasten to learn from our Church leaders. They will tell us quickly and plainly.If we  know what is right, have we the courage to stand up for it, to defend virtue, to declare the validity of our faith, to oppose false teachings, and to fight the unpopular battle? Have we the moral stamina to confront any and all opportunities and thus preserve truth, uphold cleanliness, and defend the cause of God?The time has come when we must take a far more firm and positive stand than ever before. We must identify illicit sex, pornography, filthy speech, and the use of liquor, tobacco, marijuana, and worse drugs as enemies of God and enemies to ourselves.We must see in all of them the fiery darts of the devil.We must bolster our spiritual fortifications, raise the shield which God has given us, and wield the sword of righteousness and faith as all God’s servants should.We must ask ourselves anew the potent question: Who’s on the Lord’s side? Who?And we must understand that:Have you a precious child? Would you save his soul? Would you fight to protect him from immorality, pornography, liquor, tobacco, and drugs? Do you shield him from evil companions?How vigorously do you fight? Do you go all out for your child, or don’t you love him that much? Would you try as hard to save him from sin as you would to save him from drowning or from fire? If not, why not?Is not sin our worst enemy? It can destroy both body and spirit. Are we not fighting for eternal life as well as for a peaceful mortal existence?Some young people are in trouble these days. Hundreds of thousands are not, of course, and are faithful and clean. But those who are casualties need help, and their greatest help should and must come from their own home circles.Then shall we not as families bend every effort to save our young ones? Shall we not fortify our homes to defend them? Shall not every parent rise to this emergency? Every father must awaken to the responsibility which is his. Every mother must put her priorities where they belong.Is it too much to ask that parents deliberately and objectively teach their children the gospel truths which alone can save them from the carnage of Satan? Is it too much to ask all parents to live those truths themselves?Is it too much to set a proper example by our own righteous living?Is it too much to teach our children that it is better to die in defense of virtue than to lose it?It is too much to live the Word of Wisdom ourselves and teach it to our little ones? Is it too much to teach them that violation of the Word of Wisdom can lead them into much worse sin?Is it too much to be honest ourselves and to teach our children to be honest?Is it too much to have daily family prayers?Is it too much to go with our children to our Church meetings and observe a sacred Sabbath?Is it too much to hold family gatherings in our homes either before or after our chapel services on Sunday and thus further insulate our little ones against the sins of the day?Is it too much to hold a home evening each Monday and there teach our family the value of a clean life, doing so by recreation as well as by precept?Is it too much to believe sufficiently in the Lord so that we will accept his word and really obey him?Is it too much to remember that God has said that if we are not valiant in the testimony of Jesus we shall lose the crown over the kingdom (see Is it too much to keep in mind—and may we never forget—that if we receive the commandments with a doubtful heart and keep them with slothfulness, we shall be condemned (see There is no reward for half-hearted obedience. We must become vigorous and enthusiastic about living our religion, for God commands that we serve him with  our heart, with  our might, with  our strength, and with the very best of our intelligence.With him there can be no halfway measures. We must be fully  him or we may be classed with those who are  him.Then what shall we do? Put on the whole armour of God—that is what we are to do:“Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.“… Take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. …“Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;“Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.“And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God” As Paul further said, let us not be “men-pleasers,” but be true servants of God, doing his will from the heart (see For this I humbly pray in the sacred name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brothers and sisters and friends, today we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the organization of the Church. The Church of which we speak is not a man-made organization; it is exactly what its name implies.“Thus [said the Lord himself] shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.“Verily I say unto you all [he continued]: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations;“And that the gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth” In the headnote to the twentieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the prophet Joseph wrote: “We obtained of him [Jesus Christ] the following, by the spirit of prophecy and revelation; which not only gave us much information, but also pointed out to us the precise day upon which, according to his will and commandment, we should proceed to organize his Church once more here upon the earth”  and then he added, “The Lord again attests the genuineness of the Book of Mormon.”Since the Lord, as he specified the date on which his Church was to be organized, attested again to “the genuineness of the Book of Mormon” at the same time, in the same revelation, I have concluded that as we observe the sesquicentennial anniversary of the organization of his Church, it will be proper for us to review a few Book of Mormon teachings. There are many reasons why we should do so. To begin with, the Lord has put us under obligation to teach the Book of Mormon. He said that he sent Moroni to reveal it (see  and that through his mercy he had given the Prophet Joseph “power … to translate [it]”  see also  and that it contains “the truth and the word of God”  and “the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also” The Prophet Joseph Smith “told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book” ( 4:461;  sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 39).Nephi tells us that its contents “shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; … and the nations who shall possess them [the teachings of the Book of Mormon] shall be judged of them according to the words which are written” For me there could be no more impelling reason for reading the Book of Mormon than this statement that we who have the Book of Mormon shall be judged by what is written in it.Moroni says that the very reason the book has been given to us is that we may know the “decrees of God”  set forth therein and by obedience to them escape the calamities which are to follow disobedience.To the early Saints the Lord spoke rather sharply about remembering the Book of Mormon’s teachings.“Your minds in times past,” he said to them, “have been darkened because of unbelief, and because you have treated lightly the things you have received—“Which vanity and unbelief have brought the whole church under condemnation.“And this condemnation resteth upon the children of Zion, even all.“And they shall remain under this condemnation until they repent and remember the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon” Prior to this he had told them that “the Book of Mormon and the holy scriptures are given of me for your instruction”  On another occasion he had said, “The elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in … the Book of Mormon” It is, of course, obvious that unless we read, study, and learn the principles which are in the Book of Mormon, we cannot comply with this direction to teach them.There is another reason why we should read the Book of Mormon: By doing so we will fill and refresh our minds with a constant flow of that “water” which Jesus said would be in us “a well of water springing up into everlasting life”  We must obtain a continuing supply of this water if we are to resist evil and retain the blessings of being born again.The great overall struggle in the world today is, as it has always been, for the souls of men. Every soul is personally engaged in the struggle, and he makes his fight with what is in his mind. In the final analysis the battleground is, for each individual, within himself. Inevitably he gravitates toward the subjects of his thoughts. Ages ago the wise man thus succinctly stated this great truth: “As he thinketh in his heart, so is he” If we would escape the lusts of the flesh and build for ourselves and our children great and noble characters, we must keep in our minds and in their minds true and righteous principles for our thoughts and their thoughts to dwell upon.We must not permit our minds to become surfeited with the interests, things, and practices of the world about us. To do so is tantamount to adopting and going along with them, for the experience of the race sustains the conclusion of him who said that—If we would avoid adopting the evils of the world, we must pursue a course which will daily feed our minds with and call them back to the things of the Spirit. I know of no better way to do this than by daily reading the Book of Mormon.In all dispensations, the Lord has counseled his people to keep in their minds and thoughts the truths he has revealed to them. To the early Saints of this dispensation he said: “Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds”  This counsel followed his statement to the elders:“Ye are not sent forth to be taught, but to teach the children of men the things which I have put into your hands by the power of my Spirit;“And ye are to be taught from on high” Instructing ancient Israel not to go after “the gods of the people which [were] round about” them  he said:“Hear, O Israel. …“… these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart:“And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.“And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.“And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates” “Search the scriptures”  said Jesus to his carping critics, who, being surfeited with the things of this world, rejected him. In the scriptures they could, if they would, learn the truth about him and the things of eternal life which he taught them.The Psalmist thus recounts the rewards which follow knowing and meditating upon the word of God:“O how love I thy law! it is my meditation all the day.“Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies. …“I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.“I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.“I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.“I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.“How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every [evil] way.“Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path” I am persuaded, my brothers and sisters, that it is irrational to hope to escape the lusts of the world without substituting for them as the subjects of our thoughts the things of the Spirit, and I know that the things of the Spirit are taught with mighty power in the Book of Mormon. I believe with all my heart, for example, that if our young people could come out of our homes thoroughly acquainted with the life of Nephi, imbued with the spirit of his courage and love of truth, they would choose the right when the choice is placed before them.How marvelous it would be if, when they must make a decision, there would flash into their minds, from long and intimate association with them, the words of Nephi:“I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them” And when the going gets rough and temptation to abandon the course of righteousness presses upon them, they might think of his plea to his wayward brothers:“Let us be faithful,” he said, “in keeping the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens of thousands?”  see also If our young folks become familiar with the teachings of the Book of Mormon, they will not only be inspired by the examples of Nephi, the 2,000 sons of Helaman (see  and other great Book of Mormon characters to choose the right, they will also be so schooled in the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ that they will be able to know and understand what is right.From almost every page of the book, there will come to them a moving testimony that Jesus is indeed the Christ, the Son of the living God, our Redeemer and Savior. This witness alone will be a sustaining anchor in every storm. In the Book of Mormon they will find the plainest explanation of Christ’s divine mission and his atonement to be found anywhere in sacred scriptures.They will be familiar with the great, fundamental, basic virtues; the Book of Mormon is full of instructions concerning them. They will have learned that “to be carnally-minded is death, and [that] to be spiritually-minded is life eternal”  They will know that the Lord God delights in chastity and virtue which are “most dear and precious above all things”  see also  They will know that a violation of these sacred principles is, in the sight of the Lord, “an abomination … above all sins save it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost” They will have learned the folly of putting their trust in the learning of men or in the riches of this world (see  As a matter of fact, there is no fundamental virtue about which they will not be taught, for in the Book of Mormon, as has already been said, is to be found “the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ”  see also And so, I counsel you, my beloved brothers and sisters and friends everywhere, to make reading the Book of Mormon a few minutes each day a lifelong practice. All of us need the uninterrupted association with the Spirit of the Lord. We need to take the Holy Spirit for our constant guide that we be not deceived [see  I am persuaded by my own experience and that of my loved ones, as well as by the statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith, that one can get and keep closer to the Lord by reading the Book of Mormon than by reading any other book. Don’t be content with what someone else tells you about what is in it. Drink deeply from the divine fountain itself.I feel certain that if, in our homes, parents will read from the Book of Mormon prayerfully and regularly, both by themselves and with their children, the spirit of that great book will come to permeate our homes and all who dwell therein. The spirit of reverence will increase; mutual respect and consideration for each other will grow. The spirit of contention will depart. Parents will counsel their children in greater love and wisdom. Children will be more responsive and submissive to the counsel of their parents. Righteousness will increase. Faith, hope, and charity—the pure love of Christ—will abound in our homes and lives, bringing in their wake peace, joy, and happiness.That we will seek these blessings through reading the Book of Mormon, I humbly pray and leave my blessings with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.