We have been taught by our President and our leaders that we should study and read the scriptures. We were told that in our meeting Friday with the Regional Representatives of the Twelve. Brother Hinckley told us at our last conference to read the Book of Mormon, and he has had over a thousand letters back from Saints, advising that they have read it.The Savior of the world advised us to read the scriptures. He said: “Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me”  Is there anything worth seeking more than eternal life?As I read the scriptures—and I have read the Book of Mormon during the past six months and most of the Bible—I always find something therein that I did not remember was there when I read it before. And I would like to use as a sort of a text for what I say here today a verse that I took from the book of Nahum, chapter 2, in the Bible, which reads as follows: “The chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation. …“The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings” Could anybody have described an automobile better than that before there was such a thing as an automobile? Certainly they travel like the lightning, and they look like torches—especially in the evening when the lights are on—and they jostle against each other. If you want a demonstration of that, just go to one of the body repair shops and see how many of them come in all bruised!The thing that I liked about that particular passage of scripture is that it describes the day of the Lord’s preparation. We live in that day. Five hundred years ago this prophecy could not have come true, but today there is no other answer for that prophecy than an automobile. The importance of the prophecy is that it describes the day of his preparation.I like to think of the many passages of scripture that designate the time of his preparation. I quote you from the book of Malachi, where the Lord, speaking through Malachi, said that he would send his messenger to prepare the way for his coming. And he would come swiftly to his temple, and who could abide the day of his coming, because he would be as refiner’s fire and fullers’ soap (see  Now, obviously that had no reference to his first coming. He did not come swiftly to his temple at that time. He did not come cleansing and purifying as refiner’s fire and fullers’ soap. We are told that when he comes in the latter days, the wicked will cry out to the rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us from his presence” (see When the Lord sends a messenger to prepare the way for his coming, that messenger can be none other than a prophet. When the Savior came in the meridian of time, John the Baptist was sent to prepare the way for his coming, and Jesus testified of him that there was no greater prophet in Israel (see  And the prophet Amos tells us: “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets” Therefore, when the time of preparation comes, as I have read to you here today, the Lord could not prepare for his coming without a prophet. And the prophet of this dispensation was none other than the Prophet Joseph Smith. And what he has brought forth is a fulfillment of so many of the prophecies of holy scripture that cannot be found anywhere else in all this world.I like the statement of Peter of old, following the day of Pentecost, when he talked to those who had put to death the Christ. He said the heavens were to receive the Christ until “the times of restitution of all things … spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began”  Search this world over and you cannot find a church that claims a restitution of all things spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets except The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We believe Peter was a prophet; and if the world does, then they cannot look for the Savior’s second coming until there is such a restitution of all things.There is not time to discuss that restitution today, but just think of the coming of the Father and the Son to teach the real personality of the Godhead; the coming of Moroni with the plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated; the coming of John the Baptist (as Brother Monson testified this morning) with the Aaronic priesthood, the power to baptize by immersion for the remission of sins; the coming of Peter, James, and John who held the keys of the holy apostleship, with power to organize the church and kingdom of God in the earth for the last time, in fulfillment of the promise made by Daniel in his interpretation of King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream.The king had forgotten his dream, and he called all the soothsayers and the wise men and astrologers, and none of them could tell him his dream. He heard of the man Daniel and sent for him, and Daniel said: “There is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days”  Then Daniel told him about the rise and fall of the kingdoms of this world until the latter days, when the God of heaven would set up a kingdom that should never be destroyed or given to another people. But like a little stone cut out of the mountains without hands, it would roll forth until it should become as a great mountain and fill the whole earth (see The establishment of that kingdom was made possible in these latter days—and he said in the latter days—through the coming of Peter, James, and John with the holy apostleship and the power to organize the kingdom of God in the earth again.One of our missionaries in the South, while I was the mission president there, preached about that dream and the establishment of the Lord’s latter-day kingdom. I stood at the door at the close of the meeting, and a man came up and introduced himself as a minister. He said, “You don’t mean to tell me you think that kingdom is the Mormon church, do you?”And I said, “Yes, sir. Why not?”He said, “It couldn’t be.”I said, “Why couldn’t it?”He said, “You can’t have a kingdom without a king, and you don’t have a king, so you don’t have a kingdom.”“Oh,” I said, “my friend, you didn’t read far enough. You just read the seventh chapter of Daniel and you will see where Daniel saw ‘one like the Son of man’ coming in the clouds of heaven unto the Ancient of Days. And unto him was given the kingdom, that all other kingdoms, powers, and dominions under the whole heavens should serve and obey him” (see Then I said: “My friend, tell me, how can a kingdom be given to him when he comes in the clouds of heaven if a kingdom is not prepared for him?” I said: “Maybe you would like to know what is going to become of that kingdom. If you will read a little further, Daniel said something like this: The kingdom and the power and the dominion under the whole heavens shall be given unto the Saints of the Most High God, that they might possess the kingdom for ever (see  And as if that were not quite long enough Daniel adds, ‘Even for ever and ever.’”Now, who are the Saints of the Most High God? All you wonderful people who are listening in today, and you who are bearing the burden along with these thirty thousand missionaries scattered all over this world to help prepare this kingdom for the coming of the great King.I like to refer to the experience of John the Revelator when he was banished upon the Isle of Patmos. A voice from heaven said: “Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter”  This was thirty years after the death of the Savior. And the angel showed John the power that would be given to the evil one, the devil, to make war with the Saints (and the Saints were the followers of Jesus) and to overcome them and to reign over all kindreds, tongues, and nations (see  That is one of the positive declarations in the holy scriptures of a complete apostasy from the church that Jesus established. But the angel did not leave it there. He then showed John another angel flying in the midst of heaven, “having the everlasting gospel [and that is the only gospel that can save men] to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people” If the everlasting gospel had been upon the earth, there would have been no need for John to see a restoration brought back by an angel. This is the restitution of all things that Peter had in mind when he said that the heavens were to receive the Christ “until the restitution of all things … spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began.”  And then the angel showed him an angel bringing the everlasting gospel to be preached to every nation, “saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come” We live in the day of his judgments. In the period of my lifetime there have been more judgments and destructions and wars and contentions in this world than in all the history of the world combined before that time. This is the time of the judgments that the angel saw, when that everlasting gospel should be restored. And then he adds: “Worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters” When Joseph Smith had his marvelous vision and saw the Father and the Son, there was not a church in this world that worshipped the God that made the heavens and the earth and the sea and the fountains of water. They worshipped an essence everywhere present, a god without body, parts, or passions. And if he has no body, that means he has no eyes—he cannot see; he has no ears—he cannot hear; he has no voice—he cannot speak. What is there left to worship when you take all of those qualities away? And then think of the two glorious personages who appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith in a pillar of light brighter than anything in this world.Now there are many more wonderful things that the holy prophets were permitted to see with respect to this preparation for his coming in the day when the chariots should jostle against each other, when their lights should be like torches, and when they should travel like the lightning, but that is as far as my time permits. I love this work. I know it is true. There is no one else—no other people in the world—that have fulfilled the words of the prophets as has the restoration of the gospel in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times.I pray God to bless you all, and bear you my witness of the divinity of this work, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, amen.During my many years of service as a Church official I have been asked by brides- or grooms-to-be if I would perform their marriage ceremony. This I have always been pleased to do when possible, and so I have united in the holy bonds of matrimony many couples—some civil marriages for this life only before I became a General Authority of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and some marriages in the temple of God for time and for all eternity. I shall comment later on the difference.I suppose one of the happiest times in a person’s life is when contemplating marriage—particularly if the person feels that the choice of mate is the one and only. It is safe to assume that at the time of marriage most couples are sure they are making the right choices; but all too often the honeymoon ends, and trouble begins, and the marriage terminates in divorce.The frequency of divorce has led some to a life-style where they feel inclined to escape from the seemingly meaningless rituals, without benefit of clergy or other legal sanctions. I often wonder how well-informed they are about the purpose of the creation of the earth on which they dwell, and how fully they have researched the scriptures to learn why God created man and woman and instituted the sacred ordinance of marriage.Let us consider first the purpose of the creation of the earth. The scriptures make it clear that it was for no other purpose than to provide a place for the sons and daughters of God to dwell in mortality and prove themselves worthy, through keeping the commandments, to return to the presence of God from whence they came.Following the creation of the earth, “God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. …“So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.“And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it” When God created woman and brought her to the man, he said:“Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh” Yes, marriage is ordained of God, and following that first reference to husband and wife, we find recurring scriptures as evidence that men and women became husbands and wives in marriage ceremonies followed by wedding feasts. We are not here just to “eat, drink, and be merry”  We have been given an earth to subdue, and instructions to multiply and replenish it. It is interesting to note that God said “multiply” and not just “replenish” the earth (see It is important for us to understand, as we can learn from the scriptures, that God is eternal, that his creations are eternal, and that his truths are eternal. Therefore, when he gave Eve to Adam in marriage, that union would be eternal. Marriage as ordained of God and performed in his holy temples is eternal—not just until death. In Ecclesiastes we read:“I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever” When Christ asked Peter to tell him who he was, Peter answered, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.” Jesus gave Peter the assurance that he knew this by revelation from God the Father, and that it would be upon this rock of revelation that he would build his church. Then he said, “I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven” (see When the Pharisees came to Jesus, tempting him, to ask about divorce, his answer included the following: “Have ye not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female,“And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh?“Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder” These scriptures indicate that celestial marriage, ordained by God and performed by his authority in his holy temples, is eternal, and couples so united are sealed for time and all eternity, and their children are born in the covenant of the everlasting gospel. They will be an eternal family according to their faithfulness.How does one prepare for such a marriage? All young people should consider very carefully and prayerfully the kind of mate they would like to have for eternity and for the father or mother of their children. Parents have a responsibility to teach their children the importance of keeping themselves clean and pure, with high moral standards, so they will be worthy of the kind of men and women with whom they want to associate and marry. Someone has said that a man breeding livestock is very careful about what he allows in the pasture with his prize animals, but he lets his son or daughter go with anyone without checking on their credentials.Another example is given of a man whose daughter came to him one evening and said, “Dad, may I use the car tonight?”He replied, “It isn’t here.”“What do you mean, ‘It isn’t here.’ Where is it?”“I don’t know. I let a man borrow it.”“Well, who is he?”“I don’t know.”“I don’t understand. When will he bring it back?”The father then explained, saying, “You seem to be quite concerned about my car, and yet you don’t seem to appreciate my wanting to know about your dates—with whom and where you are going and when you will come back. I have far more interest in you and your welfare than in my automobile, and I hope you can understand  why I ask you those questions.”Children should understand and be made to feel the love and concern their parents have for them. If the proper relationship exists they will willingly confide their plans and be happy to have their friends and parents meet.When young people come to me for advice about courtship and marriage I usually suggest that they ask themselves the following questions:What kind of mother or father do I want my children to have?What kind of parent am I prepared to be?Do I want to associate with someone because of his or her popularity only, or do I look deeper for spiritual and moral qualities?Am I analyzing our similarities and differences in background, culture, and intellect?Am I prepared to adjust to these differences?Do I realize that such adjustments need to be made  marriage?These considerations will certainly help in making a proper choice for a companion with whom one is prepared to spend eternity. Then after the marriage there are many responsibilities that cannot be taken lightly; but with each contracting party assuming his or her full share of the responsibility, there is nothing in this life that will bring greater satisfaction and happiness.As I have performed marriage ceremonies for young couples, I have talked with them about their future and the things that will go into building an increase of love for one another and into the establishment of a happy home. There are four specific things, among others, which I always include.First, I remind them to keep the covenants which they make as they are married.Second, addressing myself to the young man, I tell him to make her happy. If he will do all he can to make her happy, she cannot help but want to reciprocate and do everything she can for his comfort and welfare.Third, I stress the importance of clearing up any misunderstandings they may have. I remind them that it does not matter  is right, but  is right. They should never retire at night with any differences between them. As they kneel together in prayer and ask the Lord to bless them and help them overcome their difficulties, the sweet spirit of forgiveness will come into their hearts, and they will forgive one another as they ask the Lord to forgive them.Fourth, and very important, I remind them to continue to love one another.I tell them too that marriage is not a fifty-fifty proposition. Each must go the extra mile so there is no contention about the halfway mark. They must keep private matters confidential, and I advise them to solve their own problems without interference from family or friends.Sometimes young people do not have the patience to wait for material comforts and luxuries which they may not be able to afford. Wanting too much too soon can be a hardship on both husband and wife, and financial burdens brought on by careless management are often a source of contention. It is far more important to build an atmosphere of love and harmony and spirituality in the home than to concentrate on material possessions which can be accumulated in time as financial ability permits.Into this happy home and pleasant atmosphere will eventually come the children for which the marriage was consummated, and who will add immeasurably to the joy and fulfillment which God the Father intended when he instructed Adam and Eve to multiply and replenish the earth [see  When parents understand the purpose of their existence, that they are literally the spiritual offspring of their Father in Heaven and that they have a responsibility to provide mortal bodies for others, then they rejoice in the miracle of birth as they realize they are copartners with God in the creation of each child who comes into that home.In keeping with the revelations on this subject, one of our early leaders, the late Melvin J. Ballard, said this:“There is a passage in our Scriptures which the Latter-day Saints accept as divine: ‘This is the glory of God—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man’ [see  Likewise we could say that this is the glory of men and women—to bring to pass the  of the sons and daughters of God, to give earth-life to the waiting children of our Father. … The greatest mission of woman is to give life, earth-life, through honorable marriage, to the waiting spirits, our Father’s spirit children who anxiously desire to come to dwell here in this mortal state. All the honor and glory that can come to men or women by the development of their talents, the homage and the praise they may receive from an applauding world, worshipping at their shrine of genius, is but a dim thing whose luster shall fade in comparison to the high honor, the eternal glory, the ever-enduring happiness that shall come to the woman who fulfils the first great duty and mission that devolves upon her to become the mother of the sons and daughters of God” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1949, pp. 203–4, italics added).We reaffirm today what U.S. president Theodore Roosevelt said in 1917:“What this nation vitally needs is not the negative preaching of birth control to a submerged tenth, and the tenth immediately adjoining, but the positive preaching of birth encouragement to the eight-tenths who make up the capable self-respecting American stock which we wish to see perpetuate itself” ( Oct. 1917).There are various arguments for curtailing the birth of children or the size of families, but they are contrary to the laws of God. Our early citizens who were patriotic and God-fearing, and in many instances lacked for material possessions, believed in large families; and from that stock came some of our greatest statesmen and finest lawyers, scientists, and educators. They were self-made men reared in humble homes where spirituality abounded.The happy home is one where the family lives together, works together, plays together, and prays together; where the parents show love and courtesy and demonstrate it to each other. Love is expressed often through actions and by the spoken word. We should not be like the Scotsman who, at the death of his wife, was receiving expressions of sympathy from his friends. One neighbor commented on what a fine person she was. Jock replied, “Aye, she was a good woman, and I came near telling her so once or twice.”In a recent publication of a small pamphlet called  the opening sentence was, “Will your family survive the ’80s intact?” It mentions economic conditions and inflation, then says:“Inflation isn’t the biggest concern for many. … Moral decay will be the key threat to family life in the ’80s. That’s what a majority of your neighbors told  in a survey with a huge response. They blame inattentive parents and lack of a spiritual foundation.“Today’s trends give a parent much to be concerned about.” The article goes on to list shocking statistics on divorce, teenage pregnancies, use of drugs and alcohol. Then the question is asked, “What can be done to help children live happy, fulfilling lives?” Dr. Paul Glick, the Census Bureau’s chief demographer, gives this answer:“Caring, attentive parents give children their best start in life. There’s no real alternative for their optimum growth” (American Family Society, vol. 4, no. 1).Dr. Sydney Harris, in a recent syndicated newspaper column, reached the same conclusion. He said people asked him why he didn’t write about the energy crisis, and he responded that he didn’t have enough solid facts to make a judgment about that subject. He went on to say that he also felt it was not important enough, because mankind can solve its technical problems, but what concerned him was the greater problem, we have which is moral, not technical. He concluded by saying that if we fail as a species it will have nothing to do with energy or any other technological obstacle, but with the way we regard ourselves and others as threats and enemies rather than as members of the same family. He said that until we know who we are and what we are supposed to do, all our other knowledge cannot save us.Jesus Christ came to earth to give us that very message—who we are and what we are supposed to do. He gave us the gospel plan of life and salvation and said there was no other name under heaven whereby we could be saved (see  We have that same gospel restored in these latter days, with the living prophet today, even Spencer W. Kimball, to speak for God, as has been God’s method of communication with man through the ages. The answers to all life’s problems are to be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Continuous revelation keeps us advised on current problems.To strengthen the weakening family structure, the Church has instituted the family home evening program, where at least one night each week the entire family meets together to solve problems, enjoy recreation, and learn to better know and love one another. Here is opportunity for the parents to lead out as examples of love, kindness, courtesy, and support as father and mother together take their places as patriarch and matriarch of the family. In such a home are taught the moral principles and other virtues which will help those family members to be the future leaders of their communities and countries.From such homes come children who will eventually establish their own homes founded on righteousness and morality. They will enter into their marriage covenants in purity of body and mind, so they too can be examples of virtue to their own posterity.I conclude by reading from a letter I received from a convert to the Church who, after the required waiting period, took his family to the holy temple of God for a sealing ordinance. He wrote:“We love this church and we love the Lord and our Heavenly Father. We were on the verge of a total family failure when some of our LDS friends here began to work with us.“Even now as I sit here and think back to Saturday, I have to be amazed at the way the Church has changed our lives, from almost total family loss to an eternal family! …“Nothing can compare to seeing my wife and child dressed in white, with a radiant glow around them, and feeling the very Spirit of God whisper in my ear, ‘John, they’re yours for all time and all eternity.’”I know that through the gospel of Jesus Christ, and through keeping the commandments of God and the covenants we make with him, we can each make of our home a heaven on earth while we prepare ourselves and our children to return to our Heavenly Father. I bear testimony to the truthfulness of the things I have said this day, and I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.