Scott Hall is an unusual young man. His father, Garth, is an assistant coach for the Brigham Young University football team.Recently Scott asked his mother for a white shirt.“But you have all of these other beautiful colored shirts. Why do you want a white shirt?” asked his mother.“I just have to have a white shirt,” he said.“But why?” his mother asked.Scott replied, “I can’t be a missionary without a white shirt.”Scott is two years old.The story of the expansion of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints throughout the world not only is a miracle but is “as the stone … cut out of the mountain without hands [that] shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” (See Recently a California family, driving through St. George, Utah, on vacation, was attracted by the unusual architecture of the St. George Temple. They walked around the building, admiring its beauty.Having a little time to spare, the parents entered the information center; their two young children crossed the street to sit under the shade of a tree near our meetinghouse.A teacher, calling the children in to Primary and seeing the two young visitors, said, “Come on in to Primary.” They went in.The parents, now finished at the information center, started looking for the children. After searching for nearly an hour, they saw them come out of the chapel.The father said, “We’ve been looking all over for you. Where have you been?”They replied, “We’ve been to Primary.”“Primary! What’s Primary?”“Primary is where you learn about Jesus; and, besides, Daddy, you shouldn’t be smoking!” Their father just about swallowed his cigar.He remarked, “Let’s get on our way. We’re way behind schedule.”The children said, “We can’t go.”“Can’t go! Why not?”“We are in a play.”“A play?” he asked.“Yes,” they replied, “and the play isn’t until next week, and we have to stay all week for rehearsals.”The family stayed in St. George for a week!The children rehearsed; the parents were taught the gospel; and the whole family was baptized.The truth of our message—the impact of its spiritual influence upon hearts —is the greatest influence for good in the world.Senior Classman Kevin Scott was assigned to preside over a dining table of ten freshmen midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy. Seniors at the Naval Academy at Annapolis assist in training new midshipmen not only in tactics, but also in courtesy and discipline.During the dinner Senior Scott requested that each midshipman give his full name, his hometown, and his state.One of the freshmen answered, “Midshipman Ernest Ward Sax, sir, from Salt Lake City, Utah.”Senior Scott said, “Are you a Mormon?”“Yes, sir.”“Does that mean you do not smoke or drink liquor or coffee?”“Yes, sir.”“Do you have a copy of the Book of Mormon?”“Yes, sir.”“Have you read it?” was the next question.“Yes, sir.”“Will you loan it to me?” requested Scott.“Yes, sir.”An unusual but friendly relationship developed, with an exchange of books and pamphlets between young Midshipman Sax of Salt Lake City and Senior Classman Scott of North Carolina.Annapolis graduate Kevin Scott is now a Marine lieutenant in flight training in Florida. Newly baptized Kevin Scott is the ward mission leader, the “spark plug” of the ward missionary effort. He is now testifying to others about the restoration of the gospel and enthusiastically encouraging our members to spread the message.Midshipman Ward Sax, now in his second year at Annapolis, is the son of a caring Mormon family, a young man who honored his priesthood responsibility.As I look at a map of the world—its vastness, its billions of people—and ponder the responsibility our Lord has placed upon the young Aaronic Priesthood bearers, I marvel at how the Lord has placed each of you in families or special circumstances at this particular time.America and every country in the world desperately need a young generation of champions—champions of truth, of honesty, of purity, of high moral standards, of faith in a living God.Our Lord counseled us to “seek … first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all … things shall be added unto you.”  As you study the scriptures, pray to understand them, and live in harmony with their inspired teachings, then you will grow in wisdom and strength.You hold sacred priesthood keys, rights, and responsibilities. A troubled world is waiting to hear from you. What will you say? How will you say it? Will the world know that you know for sure where you are going?Paul taught his young friend Timothy, “For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.” The Lord has placed in our hands the divine power and authority to act in all things, to preach the gospel and perform the ordinances of salvation by which men are sealed up into eternal life. You  different from the rest of the world.While Joseph Smith was translating the Book of Mormon with Oliver Cowdery as the scribe, they went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord regarding baptism. While calling upon the Lord, “a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light” and laid his hands upon them and ordained them, saying:“Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins.” Joseph Smith received direction to baptize Oliver Cowdery and Oliver to baptize Joseph. Then the Aaronic Priesthood was conferred upon each.The heavenly messenger “said that his name was … John the Baptist, … and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek, which … would in due time be conferred on” Joseph and Oliver. (See You hold this same sacred authority to declare repentance, to baptize, to administer the sacrament, to assist the bishop, and to be concerned for those needing special encouragement.Our Lord has used young men your age in many miraculous ways.Jesus taught and confounded the priests in the temple when only twelve.David, the young shepherd boy, with complete faith in the Lord, met the Philistine giant, Goliath, on the battlefield. With a prayer in his heart and unafraid, David took a stone out of his bag and, whirling the sling around his head, flung the stone at Goliath, and it sank deep into his forehead. Goliath fell to the earth. A young boy’s courage and faith in God had saved the Israelites. (See Joseph Smith at age fourteen read in James: “If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, … and it shall be given him.”  Later he said:“Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man. … It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. …“I retired to the woods. …“I kneeled down and began to offer up the desire of my heart to God.” Thus began the events that led to the restoration of The Church of Jesus Christ when God the Father and His Son appeared to the boy, Joseph.Beloved young friends, much of our future rests with you. You are needed—not to be weak, but to be strong. You can hold high the beacon of light in a darkened world as you testify of a living God.You have our love and encouragement. We believe in you. We are not out of touch with you and your challenges. We have “walked in the same moccasins.” We dated lovely girls and know that associations with them can be uplifting, wholesome, and a beautiful experience.Live so your memories can bless the full length of your life. Live for that glorious day when you will go to the holy temple for eternal blessings and joy. Resist the temptations and pressures of those who might urge you to stray, to use marijuana or beer or hard liquor. You understand how deadly they become to your body and then to your spirit. You must not succumb. You are different. Pornography, filthy literature and movies, vile language, and suggestive music are not part of your life. They can destroy you.We know you are maturing in a world promoting a quest for fun, excitement, material possessions, immediate gratification, and an attitude of “do it now.” Develop the strength to defer gratification—to understand there is a time and season for everything and a maturing process that is part of God’s eternal plan.We remind you of values and truths that are ageless and eternal—like “duty, truth, justice, and mercy.” They “become the measure of decision. … The straight and righteous path is the shortest and the surest. (Walter Lippman, “The Fascination of Greatness,”  7 Sept. 1943.)Following the sensational Brigham Young University basketball victory over Notre Dame, Danny Ainge’s father was asked if his son might break his professional baseball contract for a better offer in basketball. His father replied, “Danny has a contract. Honor and integrity are more important than money.”Jesus taught, “For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?” Your character is yours alone to build. No one can injure your character but you.Life is a competition not with others, but with ourselves. We should seek each day to live stronger, better, truer lives; each day to master some weakness of yesterday; each day to repair a mistake; each day to surpass ourselves.Elder Howard W. Hunter’s grandson attended tithing settlement with his father some time ago. The bishop indicated his pleasure in the young lad’s wanting to pay a full tithing and asked him if he thought the gospel was true. This seven-year-old boy, having paid his full tithe of fourteen cents, said he guessed the gospel was true, “but it sure costs a lot of money.”We learn in our youth to pay an honest tithing. The Lord requires one-tenth of what we earn. If you work as a bagger in a grocery store, the money you are paid for every tenth bag of groceries you carry out to a car belongs to the Lord. Pay your tithing monthly or weekly as you are paid. Never be in debt to the Lord. Spiritual and temporal blessings will be yours as you carefully honor this commandment.Football came to our country town later than most. The school board had neither the money for equipment nor a coach. Then the great day arrived. Our high school principal was able to buy twelve inexpensive football outfits, except the expensive cleated football shoes (we used our basketball shoes), and our coach was recruited from the faculty because he had witnessed a game.We learned a few simple plays, how to tackle—or so we thought—and set off for our first game with Twin Falls, the previous year’s Idaho state champions.We dressed and went out on the field to warm up. Their school band started to play (they had more students in the band than we had in our entire high school), and then through the gates came their team. The twelve of us—a full team of eleven plus one all-round substitute—watched in amazement as they kept coming through the gates—all thirty-nine of them in full uniform.The game was most interesting! To say it was a learning experience is rather mild. After two plays we didn’t have any desire to have the ball—so we would kick it, and soon they would score. When they got the ball, they would run a baffling play and score. Our problem was to get rid of the ball—it was less punishing.In the final minutes of the game they became a little reckless. A wild pass fell into the arms of Clifford Lee, who was playing halfback with me. He was startled, not knowing for sure what to do—until he saw the “Dallas Cowboys” thundering after him. Then he knew what to do. He was fast. He wasn’t running for points, but for his life! Clifford made a touchdown; six points went up on the board. The final score—106 to 6! We really didn’t deserve the six points, but with our torn shirts and socks and our bruises, we took them anyway.A learning experience? Of course! An individual or a team must be prepared. In all things success depends upon previous preparation.My father was our bishop, but he died before I received the priesthood. I remember so clearly being ordained a deacon. A new world opened up for me. I was now living on a higher plane. As I would hear people say, “You hold the priesthood,” it was not easy to fully comprehend. But with humble teachers, we began to understand that as deacons we had been given blessings and authority to do sacred things.As quorum officers we accounted for all of our members and would see that they were all at church. We enjoyed being together. We chopped wood for the elderly and the widows, filled the coal bins at church, cleaned the meetinghouse every Saturday afternoon, swept the steps, raked the gravel yard, saw that the sacrament trays and lace sacrament cloths were clean and fresh, and had real pride in the appearance of our little meetinghouse.We were part of the Church and the Church was part of us. We knew it; we felt it! We held the priesthood of God! Understanding teachers guided us and helped us broaden our vision and our ever-expanding role as young men; but more important, they helped prepare us to be called in our youth to be servants of our Savior. He needs every one of you young men who hold the priesthood. I testify that this work is true. I do it humbly, in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.As I address this vast body of priesthood brethren tonight, I do so in humility and with a prayer in my heart. The two subjects I will discuss come by assignment. The introduction to my first subject is recorded in the Old Testament as spoken by the prophet Isaiah:“Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?“Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?”Four wonderful blessings are promised by the Lord to those who obey the law of the fast:“Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward.“Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am.“And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noonday:“And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.” Regarding this scripture, President Harold B. Lee had this to say:“The tremendous blessings that come [from fasting] have been spelled out in every dispensation. … If you analyze … the 58th chapter of the book of Isaiah  you will find unraveled why the Lord wants us to pay fast offerings, why he wants us to fast. It’s because by qualifying thus we can call and the Lord can answer. We can cry and the Lord will say, ‘Here I am.’ Do we ever want to be in a condition where we can call and he won’t answer? We will cry in our distress and he won’t be with us? I think it is time we are thinking about these fundamentals because these are the days that lie ahead, when we are going to need more and more the blessings of the Lord, when the judgments are poured out without mixture upon the whole earth.” (“Listen and Obey,” Welfare Agricultural Meeting, 3 April 1971, copy of typescript, p. 14; Church Historical Library.)President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had this to say: “The fundamental principle of all Church relief work is that it must be carried on by fast offerings and other voluntary donations and contributions. This is the order established by the Lord. Tithing is not primarily designed for that purpose and must not be used except in the last extremity.” (As quoted by Marion G. Romney, “Our Primary Purpose,” Welfare Agricultural Meeting, 3 April 1971, copy of typescript, p. 8; Church Historical Library.)Fast offering is the Lord’s financial law given for the blessing of the poor. For many years it was understood that fast offerings should represent the cost of the two meals not eaten. This understanding came into being because, in the early days, members were generally asked to give the actual food saved by fasting. Conditions were so desperate that money would have been of little use. Later, the understanding seemed to be that $1 per capita would be adequate.However, in recent years, President Kimball has said of the fast offering: “I think we should be very generous and give, instead of the amount we saved by our two meals of fasting, perhaps much, much more—ten times more where we are in a position to do it.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1974, p. 184.)It is important to recognize that the fast offering is a freewill offering, the amount of which each individual is responsible to determine. It is not the same as tithing, which is 10 percent of our interest annually. The amount is left up to each individual, and yet a living prophet has said we should be very generous. Wouldn’t it be wonderful if our faithfulness would generate fast offering funds sufficient to operate the entire storehouse system?Perhaps the following scriptures will give us some guidance as to how generous we should be:First, from the Doctrine and Covenants, section 42, beginning with verse 30. This is a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith regarding the law of consecration:“And behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken.“And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors. …“Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy.” The Lord restates this principle many times, including section 70 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verse 7:“Nevertheless, inasmuch as they receive more than is needful for their necessities and their wants, it shall be given into my storehouse.” Further, you will recall when a certain ruler asked Jesus what he should do to inherit eternal life, the Savior responded:“Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother.“And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.“Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.“And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich.“And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!“For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle’s eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.” Again, from the Doctrine and Covenants, we learn:“For it is expedient that I, the Lord, should make every man accountable, as a steward over earthly blessings, which I have made and prepared for my creatures.“I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, my very handiwork; and all things therein are mine.“But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low.“For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves.“Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment.” May I conclude my remarks on fast offerings with portions of a letter I received several years ago from Elder John H. Groberg, who at that time was president of the Tongan Mission.“Enclosed find a check for $1,000 for excess fast offerings from the Tongan Mission. Normally this letter would end here, but because of an experience I recently had I would like to add a little more.“As you may or may not be aware, Tonga is one of the poorest countries financially in the world. The average wage rate is only around 12¢ per hour if you are lucky enough to have a job. …“Recently, while visiting one of the far distant islands that is very difficult to get to, I went late in the day to the home of one of the good widow sisters there.“When I first approached her hut the sun was still quite bright and I could not help but notice the stark poverty of her surroundings. It had been raining earlier. The mud and decay and the ever-present smell of drying fish were at first repulsive. But the warmth of meeting with a fellow Church member—especially after years of separation—together with tears of appreciation for the long-awaited visit, soon pushed the unpleasantness of the surroundings temporarily into the background.“As we conversed in her fluid native tongue and she told of her love for and faith in the Church and of all the blessings she had received, I could not help but think about her apparently miserable circumstances. … All sorts of ideas went through my mind, and I must have let my thoughts wander as I suddenly became aware that somewhere between phrases about blessings and poverty and service she had gone to her hut and was now returning with a small knotted rag.“Suddenly my mind seemed to fill with light, and the words ‘fast offerings’ flooded in. I was so excited with the idea that had come so suddenly and so clearly, that you can imagine my utter amazement and unpreparedness when she took a threepence (a coin worth about 3¢) from her rag and said softly, ‘Here is my fast offering … to help the poor.’“I wanted to explain that fast offering was to help her, not for her to help others. The explanation never came, for as I looked through misty eyes, first at the threepence then back at the good sister, the whole scene changed.“The hut was a glowing mansion and the mud was gold. … The world seemed to stand still for a moment. All of nature seemed to stop and listen as from the heavens the whole universe seemed filled with the reassuring words: ‘Blessed are the poor … for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.’ “As the setting sun signaled the end of the day, so it also told of the approaching end of her beautiful life of service.“I took the threepence, and as I write this check the whole experience once again fills my mind and I wonder, ‘How many threepences to make a thousand dollars?’”May I encourage all bishops present tonight to remember this wonderful Tongan widow as you teach the law of the fast and as you bless the poor by wisely and judiciously expending these sacred funds.In the sweet glow of this experience, let me talk now with you about stake and ward budgets. We are very concerned about the financial stress under which many of our people are laboring. Bishops, particularly, have the responsibility not to let programs become too expensive and thereby become a financial burden to the members.It is all too easy for leaders to assume that others have discretionary income similar to their own. May I illustrate what I am talking about by quoting portions of a letter from a concerned mother:“In September, it was making and selling pizzas three nights a week and Saturday mornings to raise money for volleyball uniforms. There were class parties, New Beginnings, leadership workshops, and ward service projects.“In October and November it was volleyball practice and games three nights a week, a ward dinner, a Halloween party, a stake mid-week fireside, and a barn dance.“In January there have been basketball practices and games to start the sports program going again, a stake standards night, and a fund-raising project.“In February, along with the basketball games, there have been roadshow rehearsals three days of the week, a skiing party, a snow party, a stake camp meeting, and a workshop to finish up the Sesquicentennial projects to take up at least twenty-two days of this month.“I’m sure I need not go on and on with this word picture. But still there is more you should know about: Coming up is a ‘slave auction,’ a car wash, a doughnut sale, a singing telegram project, lawn raking every Saturday morning until summer to raise money for a super activity in Idaho. There’s an Aaronic Priesthood outing for both the boys and girls in May, two Scout overnights besides Beehive camp and Scout camp.”We are sufficiently concerned, that Elder Gordon B. Hinckley addressed this subject last evening in a special joint meeting with Regional Representatives and stake presidents. May I quote just a sentence or two from his remarks: “I should like to say that sacrifice, where needed, is an important aspect of the gospel. It is of the very essence of true worship. But unnecessary sacrifice, that requested because of extravagance or poor management, is evil.” You bishops should expect that your stake president will meet with you almost immediately upon returning from conference to evaluate both stake and ward budgets. The stake budget, of course, has an important impact on the ward budget.There are some very specific areas which you should carefully evaluate.These are but a few of the ways of reducing the financial burden on the people.Clearly we are preparing for the day when the higher law, that of consecration, will again become the financial law of the Church through which we will properly take care of the poor. Until that time, it is our responsibility and blessing—as a matter of fact, our covenant—to give generously from our surplus to bless the poor.We stress the teaching of personal and family preparedness as the first principle of the welfare services program. It is, therefore, incumbent upon each stake president and bishop to make sure that excessive financial demands are not made upon the people which will weaken their financial security and make it impossible for them to take care of their own needs.May the Lord bless us to be wise and sound stewards in blessing the people with our teachings and our leadership, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.