When the Lord declared that “power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable,” He revealed that this period of childhood and unaccountability was given to children so that “great things may be required at the hand of their fathers.” (See “That great things may be required at the hand of their fathers”! What confidence the Lord has in fathers, and what a responsibility He has placed on fathers! Great things are required of fathers today.When I think of fathers, I think of Adam—progenitor of us all—who faithfully taught his posterity in the ways of righteousness. I think of father Abraham, whose faith knows no peer among mortal fathers. I esteem Jacob, or Israel, with a feeling akin to reverence for his diligence and long-suffering. I honor the name of Lehi for the example he gave to his sons.In this dispensation, I think of Joseph Smith, Sr., first to give credence to his prophet-son’s testimony. I think of the noble example of Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church and father of the tenth President.I revere these noble men—not just because they were great prophets, but because they were great fathers, who realized what the Lord required of them, and they lived up to that expectation.I wish to speak on this occasion to you fathers about three particular things that the Lord requires of us. These are things that every father with an ordinary amount of diligence may do. If we will do them, our homes will be blessed with peace, our names will be proudly borne by our descendants, and our association with our family may be eternal.Fathers, what great things does the Lord require of us? Children are born innocent, not evil. They are not sent to earth, however, to neutral environments. They are sent to homes that, for good or evil, influence their ideas, emotions, thoughts, and standards, by which future choices will be made.One great thing the Lord requires of each of us is to provide a home where a happy, positive influence for good exists. In future years the costliness of home furnishings or the number of bathrooms will not matter much, but what will matter significantly is whether our children felt love and acceptance in the home. It will greatly matter whether there was happiness and laughter, or bickering and contention.I am convinced that before a child can be influenced for good by his or her parents, there must be a demonstration of respect and love.President Joseph F. Smith said: “Fathers, if you wish your children to be taught in the principles of the gospel, … if you wish them to be obedient to and united with you, love them! and prove to them that you do love them by your every word or act to them. For your own sake, for the love that should exist between you and your boys—however wayward they might be, … when you speak or talk to them, do it not in anger; do it not harshly, in a condemning spirit. Speak to them kindly; get down and weep with them, if necessary, and get them to shed tears with you if possible. Soften their hearts; get them to feel tenderly towards you. Use no lash and no violence, but … approach them with reason, with persuasion and love unfeigned. With this means, if you cannot gain your boys and your girls, … there will be no means left in the world by which you can win them to yourselves.” ( 17 Oct. 1911, pp. 260–61.)Many suggestions could be enumerated as to what we can and should do to make our homes places of refuge and happiness. I believe, however, that to tell a man what is expected of him is more important than to prescribe exactly how he is to get the job done.Once you determine that a high priority in your life is to see that your wife and your children are happy, then you will do all in your power to do so. I am not just speaking of satisfying material desires, but of filling other vital needs such as appreciation, compliments, comforting, encouraging, listening, and giving love and affection.Your supreme opportunity in life is fatherhood! These words directed to fathers by President David O. McKay should be framed by every father:“When one puts businesses or pleasure, or the earning of additional income, above his home, he that moment starts on the downgrade to soul weakness. When the club becomes more attractive to any man than his home, it is time for him to confess in bitter shame that he has failed to measure up to the supreme opportunity of his life, and flunked in the final test of true manhood.“The poorest shack in which love prevails over a united family is of far greater value to God and future humanity than any other riches. In such a home God can work miracles, and will work miracles. Pure hearts in a pure home are always in whispering distance of Heaven.” ( 7 Sept. 1968, p. 4.)Fathers, what is the spirit in your homes? In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph, the Lord directed fathers to bring up their children in light and truth. He rebuked several because of their failure to do so. Each of us would do well to review those principles given in section 93 to Joseph Smith, Jr., Frederick G. Williams, Sidney Rigdon, and Newel K. Whitney.In this revelation the Lord states that Satan “cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the tradition of their fathers.”  The “tradition of their fathers” refers, of course, to the bad examples and teachings of fathers.We must remember this world is a telestial environment. Our children grow up in this environment. They are constantly exposed to television programs and movie entertainment which depict the most seamy and perverse side of life. They are barraged with slogans and advertising designed to induce them to practices that rob them of spirituality. Even some textbooks and teaching aids used in our public school systems present theory and, in some instances, falsehood as truth.Some fathers leave solely to the mother or to the school the responsibility of shaping a child’s ideas and standards. Too often television and movie screens shape our children’s values.We should not assume that public schools always reinforce teachings given in the home concerning ethical and moral conduct. We have seen introduced into many school systems false ideas about the theory of man’s development from lower forms of life, teachings that there are no absolute moral values, repudiation of all beliefs regarded as supernatural, permissiveness about sexual freedom that gives sanction to immoral behavior and “alternative life-styles” such as lesbianism, homosexuality, and other perverse practices.Such teachings not only tend to undermine the faith and morals of our young people, but they deny the existence of God, who gave absolute laws, and the divinity of Jesus Christ. Surely we can see the moral contradiction of some who argue for the preservation of endangered species, but sanction the abortion of unborn humans.There is a solution, and it is that the Lord expects great things from the fathers of Israel. Fathers must take time to find out what their children are being taught and then take steps to correct false information and teaching.I know fathers who inquire of their children each evening to determine firsthand what their children are being taught in school and what needs to be corrected. Then, if necessary, they instruct them in what the Lord has revealed. This is application of the principle that “light and truth forsake that evil one.” The new consolidated Sunday meeting schedule has been implemented to give fathers more time on the Sabbath to teach their children. This is a golden opportunity for families to study the scriptures and receive instruction from their parents. Blessed is the household that does this on a consistent basis.What should we teach? The Lord has revealed the specific curriculum that parents should teach. Hear His words: “Teach … unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence.” As further noted in this revelation, the fundamental doctrines consist of the doctrine of the Fall, the mission of Christ and His atonement, and the first principles and ordinances of the gospel, which include faith in Christ, repentance, baptism for the remission of sins, and the gift of the Holy Ghost as the means to a sanctified life (see Brethren, we are to teach the fundamental doctrines of the Church in such a way that our children may understand. Some fathers teach, but their children do not understand. This places responsibility on fathers to study and learn the gospel.With few exceptions, righteous sons and daughters who have attained eternal blessings are not just physically begotten by their fathers. They are spiritually regenerated by the examples and teachings of their fathers.Great fathers lead their children to Christ. [see  Such was the Lord’s counsel to fathers in early Church history, and such is His timely counsel to us today!Setting your home in order is keeping the commandments of God. This brings harmony and love in the home between you and your companion and between you and your children. It is daily family prayer. It is teaching your family to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is each family member keeping the commandments of God. It is you and your companion being worthy to receive a temple recommend, all family members receiving the ordinances of exaltation, and your family being sealed together for eternity. It is being free from excessive debt, with family members paying honest tithes and offerings.Fathers, are your homes in order?In a revelation given to President John Taylor, the Lord directed this message to the priesthood: “I call upon the heads of families to put their houses in order according to the law of God, … and to purify themselves before me, and to purge out iniquity from their households. And I will bless and be with you, saith the Lord, and ye shall gather together in your holy places wherein ye assemble to call upon me, and ye shall ask for such things as are right, and I will hear your prayers, and my Spirit and power shall be with you, and my blessing shall rest upon you, upon your families, your dwellings and your households, upon your flocks and herds and fields, your orchards and vineyards, and upon all that pertains to you; and you shall be my people and I will be your God; … for my word shall go forth, and my work shall be accomplished, and my Zion shall be established.” ( typeset ms. in Church Historical Department Archives, pp. 2–3.)Yes, these times require great things from fathers, and so does the Lord. Three requirements are: create a home where love and the Spirit of the Lord may abide; bring up children in light and truth; and set your homes in order.The sacred title of “father” is shared with the Almighty. In the Church men are called and released. Did you ever hear of a mortal father being released?As I travel throughout the Church and see faithful families, I say, “Thank God for exemplary fathers and mothers.” As I see faithful young people and am proud of their accomplishments, I say, “Thank God for diligent fathers and mothers.”Fatherhood is not a matter of station or wealth; it is a matter of desire, diligence, and determination to see one’s family exalted in the celestial kingdom. If that prize is lost, nothing else really matters.I know of one family who has as its goal that each member of the family and posterity will arrive in their heavenly home—the celestial kingdom—with no vacant chairs. That is their objective. They review it at every family reunion and mention it frequently as they mingle together between reunions.God bless all the fathers in Israel to do well the work within the walls of our own homes. With the Lord’s help we shall succeed in this, our most important responsibility. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I have had the privilege of filling four missions for this church and that has provided me an opportunity to compare the teachings of this church, as we have received them through the restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, with the teachings of many other churches. My, how grateful I am to be a member of this church.Now, just to mention one or two teachings. Just think what we learn from the visit of the Father and the Son to the Prophet Joseph—a realization that the Father and the Son are two separate individuals and that they are real personages like Jesus was when he came forth from the tomb. There wasn’t a church in the world that believed in that kind of God at the time the Prophet Joseph received that wonderful vision.Then we learn that marriage can be eternal, that this is the plan of the Lord. How grateful I am for this principle, because it gives me the assurance that someday I will be reunited with that sweet companion of mine who has already preceded me into the eternal worlds. As I have said before, I would just as soon believe that death was a complete annihilation of both body and spirit as to think that I had to live on throughout the eternities that are to come without a continuation of the love ties that bind me and my wife together with the wonderful family that the Lord has given to us.One of the other great truths that we learn through the Restoration is the fact that infants should not be baptized. The idea that young children need baptism is a mistake of men. That isn’t to be found anywhere in the Lord’s teachings, for Jesus took little children in his arms and blessed them.When I have discussed some of our beautiful philosophies with people of other churches, many of them have said, “We could accept your teachings, but we can’t believe that Joseph Smith was a prophet.” I have thought a lot about that. I suppose that it would be almost impossible to believe that God was naive enough to choose a fourteen-year-old boy to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times, as Paul said, in which dispensation he would “gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth.” That opens the door for the consideration of another beautiful principle, and that is the principle of the premortal existence of spirits, that we are literally the children of God, the Eternal Father, that we lived with him before we came here upon this earth.The Apostle Paul said that the Lord “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation.”  And he said: “We have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?”  I like the thought that he is my father. When Jesus prayed, he didn’t pray, “ Father which art in heaven”; he prayed, “ Father which art in heaven”  and that is a wonderful thing. That is why our Primary children sing “I am a child of God.”The Lord has his own way of calling prophets. He knew them before they were ever born here in mortality. We read in the Book of Abraham that the Lord stood in the midst of the spirits, and among them there were noble and great ones—and they couldn’t be noble and great if they hadn’t done something to make them noble and great. The Lord said of them: “These I will make my rulers; … Abraham, thou art one of them; thou was chosen before thou wast born.”  Isn’t that a beautiful thought? The Lord stood in the midst of those spirits, and there were some there who became his prophets here in mortality.We read about Jeremiah when he was called to be a prophet. He couldn’t understand it, and the Lord said: “Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations.”  The Lord couldn’t have ordained him if he didn’t exist, and he wouldn’t have ordained him before he was born if he hadn’t done something in that spiritual life to prepare him to become one of the Lord’s mouthpieces here upon this earth. The same thing is true with the Prophet Joseph. I will come back to that.We read that there was war in heaven—that “Michael and his angels fought against the dragon,” and the dragon (or Satan) was cast down to the earth, and the cry went out: “Wo to the inhabiters of the earth … for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath”  and he “walketh about, seeking whom he can devour”  And that is what he has been doing. He drew a third of the host of heaven with him (see  and when they were cast out, that third of the host of heaven brought with them the knowledge that they had in the spirit world, while our knowledge was temporarily taken from us through our birth into mortality.The Apostle Paul said: “For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.“But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. …“For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.” To me, that says there will be a complete restoration of all that we knew before we came here into mortality when we lived in the spirit world.The best illustration we have about how we lose our knowledge is the life of the Savior. We read in the first chapter of the Gospel of John that “in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.“All things were made by him: and without him was not any thing made that was made.“In him was life; and the life was the light of men.” Then it goes on: “And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth.” According to this scripture, Jesus created everything; nevertheless, when he was born into mortality he had to learn to walk and talk like other children. At the age of twelve, we find him reasoning with the wise men in the temple, and later on he said: “The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do.” Now, because Satan brought with him the knowledge that he had in the spirit world, he knew whom he had fought against in that war in heaven and he has tried to put to death the prophets of God. That is why Jesus, standing on the Mount of Olives overlooking the city of Jerusalem, said:“O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!“Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.“Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.” Today we are coming because we have been sent in the name of the Lord. Like Paul said,“Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. …“And how shall they hear without a preacher?“And how shall they preach, except they be sent?” We have been sent.I would like to illustrate what I am trying to tell you. When Moses was born, the devil put it into the heart of Pharaoh to have all the male children in Israel put to death. Thousands had been born before that time, but Satan knew that he would have to reckon with Moses. And you remember how Moses’ mother saved his life by making a basket of bulrushes and putting him in the river and how Pharaoh’s daughter took him out and cared for him.When Jesus was born, Satan put it into the heart of Herod to put to death all the children in Bethlehem and the surrounding territory that were under two years of age. There had been thousands born before that time, but Satan knew he would have to reckon with the Savior. He was in that war that was fought in heaven when Satan and a third of the spirits were cast out.When Joseph Smith went into the woods to pray, a boy of only fourteen years of age, a power of darkness rested upon him until he felt like it would crush the very life out of his body; but through his prayer, finally a pillar of light descended and he was released from the power of Satan. Satan knew that he would have to reckon with that man Joseph Smith because he was one of those noble and great ones that God said he would make his rulers.We read in the Book of Mormon that when Lehi was in the desert, he told his son Joseph that the Lord had promised Joseph who was sold into Egypt that in the latter days He would raise up a prophet from his loins like unto Moses. (See  And we are told in holy writ that there was no prophet in Israel like unto Moses because he walked and talked with God. (See  This is the kind of prophet that, three thousand years before Joseph Smith was born, the Lord promised Joseph of Egypt He would raise up through his loins. He said his name should be Joseph, and his father’s name should be Joseph; and he said: “Unto him will I give power to bring forth my word.” The Prophet Joseph Smith brought us the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, the Pearl of Great Price, and many other writings. As far as our records show, he has given us more revealed truth than any prophet who has ever lived upon the face of the earth. And the Lord said: “And not to the bringing forth my word only, … but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have already gone forth among them.”  What did he mean by that? That in the midst of these hundreds of churches of men—the result of men’s interpretations of the scriptures because they can’t agree, and these churches keep multiplying—that the Lord would give to this new prophet the ability to comprehend the scriptures that had already been sent forth among them.Then he adds that he shall “bring my people unto salvation.”  Why? Because he would receive the holy priesthood, the power to administer the saving ordinances of the gospel. Then he adds, “And I will make him great in mine eyes.”  Whatever the world may think of the Prophet Joseph Smith, there is the statement of the Lord that he would be great in His eyes.Now I would like to tell you of a little experience I had in the mission field that illustrates what I think the Lord meant when he indicated that not only would the Prophet bring forth His word, but he would bring men to a conviction of His word that had already gone forth among them.When I was in Holland, I was invited to talk to a Bible class of businessmen. We met in the home of a prominent furniture dealer. There were about twenty men; each had his Bible. The only woman there was the daughter of the man of the house. They gave me an hour and a half to discuss universal salvation, which includes our work for the dead, preaching in the spirit world, and baptism of the living for the dead. I just gave them chapter and verse and let them read the passages in their own Bibles. Then when I was through, I closed my Bible and waited for comments.The first comment came from the daughter of the man of the house. She said: “Father, I just can’t understand it. I have never attended one of these Bible classes in my life that you haven’t had the last word to say on everything. And tonight you haven’t said a word.”The man shook his head and said: “My daughter, there isn’t anything to say. This man has been teaching us things we have never heard of, and he has been teaching them to us out of our own Bibles.”I could tell you many more stories like that!God bless you! Thank God for the restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I leave you my testimony, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.