My theme today is mercy. The poet wrote that mercy is “twice blest; / It bless[es] him that gives and him that takes,” and added that “earthly power doth then show likest God’s / When mercy seasons justice.” ( act 4, sc. 1, lines 186–87, 96–97.)I am sure that everyone within sound of my voice today is in favor of mercy. But mercy merely as a principle, impersonal mercy, is no more useful or virtuous than impersonal faith or impersonal repentance or impersonal love.As a new mission president years ago I visited, by somewhat imperious invitation, the home of a good and strongly opinionated man who wanted to discuss with me an error of judgment made by a young missionary. The harmless action involved was the result of a misunderstanding for which the young man had sincerely apologized. I was fully satisfied with the resolution. My friend was not. He insisted on some form of punishment, public punishment, that assured humiliation. The young man must pay, and I must see to it.We reasoned together. His position was that justice demands payment and that mercy cannot rob justice. I agreed and reminded him that the words he had quoted came from a Book of Mormon incident wherein a choice servant of God, who early in his life had desperately needed mercy had received it, and was now teaching an unrepentant son who was seeking to justify his own serious sin. Alma, the father, taught Corianton the meaning and consequences of the Atonement, in the course of which, acknowledging the place of justice, he three times testified of God’s “plan of mercy,” brought about through Christ’s holy gift.“Mercy claimeth the penitent,” he said.“Mercy claimeth all which is her own.” There is “a repentance granted; which repentance mercy claimeth; otherwise, justice claimeth the creature.” Corianton listened, repented, and was forgiven, and subsequently returned to missionary service to “bring souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them.” The sin of Corianton was major; the incident involving the missionary was innocent and minor. I thought our discussion would resolve the issue. It did not.My host leaned across the table and said to me with intensity, “I want justice!”Quietly I replied, “I want mercy.”Three times with growing force he repeated his message: “I want justice!”Each time I responded to his crescendo with diminuendo, saying more quietly, “I want mercy.”We parted with the agreement that it was my responsibility to handle the matter, to give justice its due, and to let mercy claim her own.He is gone now to his eternal reward. I remember him with respect and affection. I came to know him well and love him and to be aware that he, like all the rest of us, needed the promised mercy of Christ to the penitent.Many times I have mused on that moment: “I want justice!” “I want mercy.”Then recently, half a world away, I sat with another good man. He had brought light and warmth and good humor into the room with him, and I was listening with deep interest as he told his “before and after” story. The “before” involved his life as a nominal but nonpracticing Christian employed in a stressful occupation with rough associates and with a tendency to follow the crowd in all their bad habits. He was not attentive to his wife and children, was worried about his family, suffered from an unhappy conscience, and had developed a serious physical ailment.Then two young men came to his door. They represented the Lord, they said, with a message of eternal truth for him and his family: the gospel of Jesus Christ is restored to the earth, the church of Jesus Christ reestablished; every individual and every family are important to God and through his plan can find purpose and meaning; families are meant to be together forever; and there is a way to know for oneself the truth of these things, they said, for the Holy Spirit will confirm the knowledge for those who sincerely seek.He listened and believed. Immediately he put aside bad habits. His wife and children responded also. Their lives changed. They studied and prayed and worshiped, joined the Church, and lived in the light of the Spirit. His work improved, and soon new opportunities and trust and renewed reputation for dependability resulted.At the conclusion of his story came a ringing declaration of faith, without self-consciousness, without bluster, without guile. “I am like the Lord in one thing,” he said; “my specialty is mercy.”My specialty is mercy!One cannot live long with the scriptures without recognizing that God our Father and his holy Son have specialties also.
	
      To his people in Isaiah’s time, he gave stern counsel and warning. They were, he said, “a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear the law of the Lord:“Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits.” He spoke of their perverseness, their iniquity, their rejection of him and their reliance upon temporal power. Notwithstanding all this, the holy record then announces: “And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you.” He waits to be gracious! He loves to be merciful! The prophets call him “the Father of mercies.”  They speak of his “abundant mercy,”  and declare that “whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart, he shall have claim on mercy”  They declare his “wisdom … mercy, and grace.”  And crowning all of this is the testimony that our Father “delighteth in mercy.” 
	
      
	
      He spoke to the world those things which he had heard of his Father. “As my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.” The scriptures teach that he took upon himself the form of man and was “touched with the feeling of our infirmities.”  “Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest.” There is one who understands, who sympathizes. He was misunderstood, rejected, knew supreme loneliness, was poor and had not a place to lay his head, suffered anguish and conflict of mind.He understands.He can give pardon and bring peace.
	
      
	
      “Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.” Through Micah we are taught man’s whole duty, which is to walk humbly with God, to do justly among our fellowmen, and to “love mercy.” Our individual need for mercy and its conditions he explained in a parable of two men who went up to the temple to pray. One proudly announced his own perfections and righteousness. The other “would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.” Of this honest, unpretentious man the Lord declared that he “went down to his house justified rather than the other.” The meaning of mercy he taught in a parable of a man beaten and left at the roadside and concluded the sweet story of the Samaritan by referring to two men who passed by without helping, and to one who stopped to assist him. Which of these three, the Lord asked, was neighbor to the man? And he answered: “He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus, … Go, and do thou likewise.” Thus the mercy of God must be mirrored in the mercy of man, and the field is as broad as the needs of the whole human family. The Psalmist cried, “Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble.” All of us are in trouble. There is no just man on the earth who doeth good and sinneth not. (See In the most personal of his parables, the Savior identified himself fully with the hungry, the thirsty, the naked, the homeless, sick, and imprisoned. “I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: … I was a stranger, and ye took me in.”  So many are burdened with earthly care, the stain of sin, poverty, pain, disability, loneliness, bereavement, rejection. The promise of Christ’s mercy is sure and certain to those who find him and trust him. He who stilled the winds and waves can bring peace to the sinner and to the suffering saint. And we as his agents are not alone to declare his word, but to represent him in doing unto the least of his brethren that which he himself would do were he now here.In a refugee camp in Asia was a young former schoolteacher who with her mother had escaped their country after having watched the brutal murder of others in their family. She had been viciously violated to the point where she had vowed never to speak again in this depraved world. It was her way of protesting against the wickedness imposed upon her and countless others. For more than five years she spoke not a word. Then one day she came into the influence of some of our Church representatives who are performing daily miracles of love in several refugee camps. They had no medical magic, these selfless young ladies representing us there, no professional competence to deal with a tortured mind and spirit. They prayed for her, took her hand, and spoke words of love to her; and she answered! For the first time in five years she spoke, and she has been speaking since. The Spirit of him who said, “Peace be still”  reached out through faithful instruments, touched the storm center of a troubled soul, stilled the winds and waves of torment, and brought faith and hope again.For me and mine, and for you, I pray to be worthy to carry the same banner as our beloved brother who found the way to mercy and who exemplifies in his life what I heard him humbly declare: “My specialty is mercy.”“Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.What a special delight it is, brothers and sisters, to stand in your presence once more, to feel of your great spirit. I’m just glad we’re friends.You know, conference is a great time for spiritual uplift, for association, and for wise counsel. With all the counsel I’ve been hearing, I couldn’t help but reminisce a little bit about the young athlete who attempted most all sports but had never tried skydiving. And so he took several theoretical courses in how to jump.When the day came for the solo flight, he became a little fearful, so he approached his instructor and said, “I’m not sure I want to go through with this.”The instructor said, “Don’t worry. We’ll protect you by putting two added parachutes on you.”The plane took off and arrived at the three thousand foot level. With some fear and trepidation he was pushed out.On the way down, at about two thousand feet, he remembered that that’s when you pull the rip cord. He did so, and the chute didn’t open. He pulled the second, and it didn’t open. He pulled the third, and it didn’t open.To his amazement, at about that time he met in the air, coming up from the ground, another man. They passed on the way. The young parachutist shouted to his new friend, “Pardon me,” he said, “do you know anything about parachutes?”“No,” his friend shouted back, “what do you know about Coleman lanterns?”I suppose it seems all of us are in need of good counsel. Quite often parents and many young people ask the question, “How do you teach the gospel so that it’s meaningful and applicable?” Do you know, my brothers and sisters, that learning any concept or principle or changing any behavior pattern requires five important steps? you have to expose a person.  is the law of repetition.  is to give understanding, the why. People of all ages want to know the whys of the gospel, not just the rules. This is the most important aspect of teaching because the  step, that of conviction, and the  application, cannot occur until we understand.Too often our answers to young people’s inquiries are “Well, because the scriptures say so” or “That is what the leaders tell us.” Young people want to know why the scriptures say so and why the leaders are so concerned.Let me just share a little personal experience that happened some years ago at the university.I’d been in a very special meeting with some young people. We had been talking about temple marriage. As we departed the session, I was walking with three young ladies, one of whom I knew quite well. I had become aware that she had been dating a boy out of the faith, and I just cautiously suggested to her that you tend to marry those you date. I said, “I am planning on the day when I can perform your sealing in the temple.”She looked at me and she said, “Well, I may not get married in the temple.”And I said, “Why not?”And she looked at me as only young people can, and said, “Why should I?”All right, mom and dad, teacher. What do you tell them?Like most teachers, I paused to stall and think. Then, hoping for inspiration, I said, “Well, why shouldn’t you?”She looked at me and she said, “Do you really want to know?”And I said, “Please.”She said, “How well do you know my father?”I said, “Reasonably well.”She said, “My dad puts on a pretty good front. Oh, he’s a fine man, but he’s a little hypocritical.” She said, “You ought to see the way he treats my mom and us at home. And you know, my mom and dad were married in the temple. And I don’t want a marriage like that.” She said, “How well do you know Brother and Sister So-and-so?”—another acquaintance.I said, “I know them.”She said, “Did you know I babysit for them. They too are married in the temple, and I wouldn’t care for a marriage like that.” She said, “How well do you know Mr. and Mrs. So-and-so?” This is a wonderful member of our community, not of our faith. Ten children. She said, “I babysit that family too, and I’d like a marriage like theirs.”Now what do you say, mom and dad? Teacher? The scriptures say so? Well, that’s what the leaders teach. Young people are after whys and wherefores.I was still a little puzzled. Standing nearby was another young lady. I turned to her and I said, “How do you answer that?”She was alert. She turned to her friend and she said, “Jan, you’re not fair.”Jan said, “Why not?”She said, “Because you’re judging the whole church by two or three examples that don’t represent, necessarily, what we believe and teach or how we should live.” She said, “Let me ask you a question. When was the last time you had a little personal crisis, maybe a frustrating date, a test, a social situation that worried you a little bit, where your dad sensed it and came into your bedroom and sat on the edge of the bed and stroked your head and said, ‘Wouldn’t you like a blessing tonight?’”Jan looked at her and said, “Well, my dad doesn’t do that.”The little girl said, “My dad does.”And then together they talked about how her dad regularly taught the family. An experience was shared regarding family prayer. She listed some eight or nine such moments without even pausing. I could see a little change in Jan’s heart. You could see in Jan’s eyes the expression, “Oh! I would like a husband like that.”I had the thrill some months later of performing that marriage, in the temple. I’d like to think that night, a change occurred.Most wrong choices before and after marriage are not made out of rebellion or intentional error but because of misinformation, miscommunication, and lack of understanding. In most cases, if couples truly understood the whats and the whys and the hows of eternal marriage, no one would have to talk them into the right choices. Indeed, no one would be able to talk them out of them!Let me ask you young people a question: have you ever wondered why God would restrict us from some things, advise us strongly against them, warn us, even command us? Do you think his commandments are just arbitrary whims, artificial tests of some kind, generalities that are important for some people but not for others?I don’t think so! His commandments are  Our understanding and concept of God as a loving and personal Heavenly Father allows us no other definition. He gives us commandments for one reason only—because he loves us and wants us to be happy. Chastity is a perfect example. God simply knows that virtue is its own reward, that the saving of oneself for one eternal partner makes that commitment more beautiful, more joyful. It is the simple question of whether you want a penny now or a diamond later. Any momentary pleasure that might result from a premarital relationship cannot be compared with the vastly greater joy of oneness in marriage. And the indulgence in the former can destroy the potential for the latter.Chastity is like money in the bank. As you save yourself you are  the joy of belonging to one and only one. You are saving the joy of being able to say, “I am all yours, and I have never been anyone else’s.”Some will ask, “What if we already know who ‘the one’ is? What if the commitment is already there and we’re just waiting for the ceremony?” The answer is,  it’s a covenant, both with God and with your partner, and  shows the deepest love and respect for both.Some will say, “But we love each other too much to wait.” The answer is that there is no such thing as too much love and that it is too much selfishness, not love, that debates divine counsel and violates virtue.Any love that is to become eternal must include respect, faith, trust, admiration, honor, and have spiritual and mental aspects as well as physical and emotional. No relationship, either temporal or eternal, can exist without these attributes. Every soap opera is filled with accurate illustrations of misery because these qualities are absent.If, in your case, the physical tends to dominate, all the more reason to bridle it and find the other dimensions.  is the word that wise father Alma used in counseling his son Shiblon, and the promise he attached is the key to understanding: “Bridle … your passions, that ye may be filled with love.”  Bridling increases strength, increases power, increases love. There are absolutely two ways you can control a horse. (We learned a little bit about horses last night.) One is to kill it; one is to bridle it. Alma never said kill your passions. The implication is  that passions are evil, that we shouldn’t have them. On the contrary, we bridle something we love, something whose power we respect.A horse is stronger than a man, so the man bridles it, thus  its power and using that power for good. Passions are stronger than we are, so we bridle them, thus controlling their power and using that power to strengthen a marriage and forge it into eternity. One has to know  to bridle a horse or a passion.Remember, a physical relationship is simply too beautiful to squander, too wonderful to waste. It is the sterling silver too precious to tarnish before the beauty of the banquet.Let us remember that understanding “the why” in learning is what develops proper attitudes or changes behavior. God grant us the wisdom to teach wisely and with understanding, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.