Arturo Toscanini, the late, famous conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, received a brief, crumpled letter from a lonely sheepherder in the remote mountain area of Wyoming:“Mr. Conductor: I have only two possessions—a radio and an old violin. The batteries in my radio are getting low and will soon die. My violin is so out of tune I can’t use it. Please help me. Next Sunday when you begin your concert, sound a loud ‘A’ so I can tune my ‘A’ string; then I can tune the other strings. When my radio batteries are dead, I’ll have my violin.”At the beginning of his next nationwide radio concert from Carnegie Hall, Toscanini announced: “For a dear friend and listener back in the mountains of Wyoming the orchestra will now sound an ‘A.’” The musicians all joined together in a perfect “A.”The lonely sheepherder only needed one note, just a little help to get back in tune; he could go on from there. He needed someone who cared to assist him with one string; the others would be easy. Then, with all strings in tune—in harmony—the lonely sheepherder would have a source of companionship and joy and could play uplifting strains.My expressions and encouragement this morning are to God’s children whose batteries may be low or with strings in need of tuning, those whose souls were one time touched by the words and teachings of the Master and His servants but have been attracted away into other interests and activities. Some may have been neglected or not sufficiently involved in a meaningful Church responsibility or may have a feeling of injury or hurt or even unworthiness.Some have allowed themselves to get out of tune. They may have lost the pitch and drifted from the original score. The Savior of the world gave rules to live by and taught principles of love that encompass concern and encouragement:“Come unto me, all ye that labour,” he said, “and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” He did not limit or say “all who are perfect come unto me” or just the rich, or just the poor, or just the healthy, or those without sin, or those who pray the longest, or just the sick. His invitation is to all: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,” comfort, peace; “for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”His plea to all is to love God, love His children, keep His commandments, and believe that Jesus is the Christ, born of God. (See Some who accepted the teachings of the Savior and were baptized into His Church are now temporarily lost from the fold, some through their own choosing, but others, many times, by our neglect of them.Matthew tells of the disciples’ last earthly visit with Jesus. They had assembled on the mountain as directed, waiting for their Lord. He was the center of their lives. They worshiped Him. They now know He will soon leave them. Where will they go? What will they do? Eleven against the world. And what will He tell them?“And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.” Those final instructions were not only to find and baptize, but to teach. The future of the disciples was now clear—as with the Church and its members today—to bring new souls unto Christ and teach them. Teach them the commandments, teach them the principles of the gospel, teach them the love of God and love for one another, teach by the Spirit, teach with love. Then they can and will obey and live the commandments.None are to be lost, but everyone is to feel the love of the Master through His servants. He knew that to carry the message of the gospel to all nations would require active participation by everyone baptized—not just some, but everyone.There were strong social barriers among the Jews at the time of Christ, yet the Savior mingled freely among the publicans and sinners—far different from the Pharisees, who believed sinners should not be guests in their houses.Christ rebuked their unkindliness, saying, “They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.” His enemies complained that Jesus mingled and ate with sinners, but Jesus justified His ways and taught more clearly the purpose of God’s love toward repentant sinners and the joy there is in heaven over one sinner that repents:The Savior asked them, “If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray?“And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.“Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.” And then He continued, “And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.“I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.” Michael Duffy related: “I didn’t catch their names or pay much attention to what they were saying, except they were from the Mormon Church. Somehow they had found out I was a Mormon and asked if I wanted home teachers. I hadn’t been to Church for sixteen years!“I don’t know exactly why I said yes. It seemed that many events had fallen into place to convince me that there was a missing link in my life. Previously, we had lived next door to a Mormon family. We did not go to Church, but I was reminded that our two sons had never been blessed and had never attended Church.“My wife was not a Mormon, not even a Christian. Yet she agreed that something was missing.“Home teachers soon contacted us and began regular visits. This started a process that would take many months, and change my family forever.“I began attending priesthood meeting—infrequently at first, then regularly. I was finally able to overcome my Word of Wisdom problem. Our oldest son, now five, started attending Sunday School. We even began paying a little tithing. My wife supported me, but was not interested in the Church.“Then one day two missionaries knocked at our door. After many months, having just been ordained an elder, I baptized and confirmed my wife a member of the Church. We were later sealed as a family in the Washington Temple.”He continued, “As I look back on the many circumstances that took place, I fondly remember the love, prayers, and fellowship of the bishopric, elders quorum presidency, and others.“We were truly blessed to be living in a ward that actively worked with less active members, that the elders quorum president (the position I now hold),” he said, “placed special emphasis on reactivation, and even a member of the stake presidency took a personal interest in us.”The Prophet Ezekiel warned: “Ye feed not the flock.“The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither have ye sought that which was lost.” Driving to the Los Angeles Airport with a busy radio executive, I learned that he and his wife, though born in the Church, had never participated. Their social life of parties and weekends for fun and escape dominated their lives.After eight years of marriage and three children, they were becoming concerned about their lives but did nothing about it.Different sets of home teachers came and went. A new home teacher—a true shepherd—came into their lives, and after a time this new home teacher committed this man to go to Church once. Brother Adamson said he would not give up smoking and drinking. He had made a firm resolve  to live the Word of Wisdom, and if he was not welcome in Church because of it, that was fine. The home teacher said, “You are welcome, and I will pick you up.”The first Sunday Brother Adamson attended Church he waited for someone to move away from him because of the strong tobacco odor, but that didn’t happen. “They will ask me to pray or work in the Church,” he thought. That didn’t happen either.The home teacher did not phone on Sunday mornings to give him a chance to make an excuse and back out but drove to his home and would say, “Are you ready?” This home teacher picked him up every Sunday for over a year.The Adamsons began reading  and found that the Church consisted of much more than just the Word of Wisdom, which he had heard so much about all his life (and because he didn’t live the Word of Wisdom, felt the Church had nothing to offer him).This couple soon learned it is a Church of love, not a Church of fear. They learned of the mission of the Savior and of our Heavenly Father and of repentance. They became so proud of the Church they had been born into that the Word of Wisdom no longer was an important issue. He didn’t go through the pangs of quitting. It just happened. There were so many other principles of the gospel that now were so important in their lives.He said, “I found myself working on our new chapel and then one day quietly telling the bishop, ‘I’m ready, now. You can call on me to pray.’”The Savior taught Peter, “When thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.” Souls are committed to the care of the Church—to watch over and keep them in the right way, to remember their names and nourish them. (See An older couple living in a little Mormon community in Idaho had been members of the Church all their lives. The husband was eighty-six years old and his wife eighty-four. He was still a priest in the Aaronic Priesthood. New home teachers who had heard about this family’s lack of interest toward the Church asked if they could come to their home.This older couple was pleased that someone cared about them. The teachers taught the principles of the gospel. The couple responded. This eighty-six-year-old man became an elder and, with his wife, earned the privilege of going to the temple and being married for time and eternity.If thoughtful home teachers had not visited this family, they would have probably died without having received essential blessings of the gospel. Caring shepherds could have reached this couple years before when their family was growing up. The couple was grateful that home teachers finally had the courage to come.People who drift away from the true doctrine usually know in their hearts something is missing. The kernel of truth, though small, remains—never to be replaced with fame or money or worldly pleasures.The Savior placed a little child in the midst of the disciples and taught that they must become as little children in order to enter into the kingdom of heaven. He said, “For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost”  and to call all sinners to repentance.Michael Weir said:“My marriage had failed. I was living a life contrary to the principles of the Church. Not only was I inactive but had lost confidence in my ability to go back. I became successful in business, drove the nicest car, and bought expensive clothes. I had everything that the world would want.“One day, my company hired Ken Wheeler, whom I knew to be a Mormon by the way he acted. We became friends, and he invited me to Church. I wanted to go but didn’t feel worthy. He continued to invite me, and I continued to refuse. I wanted to get back, but I didn’t have the strength to do it.“One night, alone in my apartment, I became very depressed and broke into uncontrollable sobs. I prayed to the Lord and begged for His help. The next day Ken asked me how I was doing; he could sense something was wrong. Putting his arms around me, he said, ‘He still loves you, and we do, too. Why don’t you come back home?’ That was the answer to my prayers; that was the help I had begged for the night before.“I came home! I felt uncomfortable at first, but the feeling that everyone cared made it easier. Today, I don’t drive the nicest car or wear the fanciest clothes, but I feel richer than ever.”He continued, “Those who have fallen away want so badly to come back, but they are afraid to make the move. They don’t lose their testimony; they lose confidence in themselves.”Those that stray need a friend—but they need one who knows the Shepherd. Seldom do people cease coming to Church because of doctrine; they are waiting for a show of genuine love and friendly fellowship to heal their hurts or doubts.Nephi testified “that the Lord God worketh not in darkness.“He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him. …“… he saith: Come unto me all ye ends of the earth. …“Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his salvation? … Nay; but … hath given it free for all men; and … hath commanded his people that they should persuade all men to repentance.” We are his people. God expects us to find, teach, and recover those whose strings may need tuning. May we be directed by the pure love of Christ to sound for them the perfect note of an “A.”God lives. Jesus is the Christ. This is His work, to which I testify, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.“  We must fight!’ gurgled the hoarse voice of a man who had lain stiff in the devouring mud ever since our awakening; ‘we’ve got to!’ His body turned heavily over. ‘We’ve got to give all we have, our strength and our skins and our hearts, all our life and what pleasures are left us. The life of prisoners as we are, we’ve got to take it in both hands. You’ve got to endure everything, even injustice—and  the king that’s reigning now—and the shameful and disgusting sights we see, so as to come out on top, and win. But if we’ve got to make such a sacrifice,’ adds the shapeless man, turning over again, ‘it’s because we’re fighting for progress, not for a country; against error, not against a country.’” (Henri Barbusse,  trans. Fitzwater Wray, New York: E. T. Dutton and Co., 1917, p. 345.)“I don’t want to die,” screamed a crying voice from a body put against a wall. There were brief orders for the firing squad, “Ready, aim, fire!” Silence followed. The soldiers returned to their quarters. They had just witnessed the execution of a deserter. (A scene from the battlefield, somewhere in France, 1917.)Somewhere else, yesterday, in the mission field, a dialogue between a missionary and a priesthood leader:“Elder, you were called by a prophet of the Lord to serve Him. Do you remember when you received your call, signed personally by a prophet of the Lord? He said that you would be expected to devote all of your time and attention to serving the Lord, leaving behind all other personal affairs.”The answer came quickly: “I don’t want to serve anymore. I don’t like the people; I don’t like the country; I don’t even like the food!”“Well, what do you like, then?”“Oh,” he replied slowly, “I like to drive my car. I want to go home.”Somewhere else in the world, many years ago, some children, a father, a mother were sitting in their living room holding a family council. A tragedy was developing. The children were pleading with their father to stay and live with them. After a pause, the father uttered these words: “I cannot stay. I need to live my own life.” And he left.Somewhere else, in San Francisco, two weeks ago, a short notice in the paper: “Three people decided to surrender to death and jumped from the Bay Bridge.”Somewhere else, some two thousand years ago, in a crowd of five thousand Jews, five thousand followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, there was another dialogue. The crowd: “Rabbi, when camest thou hither?“Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.“Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.“Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?“Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.” “And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.” The Jews then murmured. Even some of the disciples murmured. Following a brief silence, two decisions were made.The first one: “From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.”  They followed their own way.The second one: “Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.”  They followed the way, the only true way.To desert, defect, give up, resign, surrender, renounce, abdicate, yield, apostatize, withdraw, back out, abandon—each of these words has almost the same meaning. We could find one for every situation in our lives where we might vacillate when facing what is called duty—duty to country, duty to church, duty to family, duty to oneself, duty to God.To vacillate is to hesitate in choosing a course, to try to move in two different directions at the same time, or to try simply to serve two masters. One of the greatest temptations that man has faced throughout half of history is the temptation to serve himself and to satisfy his own appetites first. This choice can lead to the spirit of desertion. Whoever  are, rich or poor, powerful or humble, faithful or not—all are subject to this temptation.Adjusting to life’s challenges is not easy, and too often we issue ultimatums to those who represent life: our Heavenly Father, ourselves, a parent, a bishop, a neighbor. Ultimatums vary: “I will stop paying tithing,” or “I will leave home,” or “Let me be released,” or “I will take my life.” They vary from silent opposition to murmuring or violence.Since the premortal existence the Lord has warned against serving ourselves and satisfying our own appetites first.“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in … Babylon the great, which shall fall.” The Lord has also helped us avoid this situation:“Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;”“And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually.” All the teachings of the Lord and the prophets carry that persistent message, to persuade the world to know him and his father through a living prophet and his church. Once this vision is given, it will help us make the decision to endure to the end.The permanent duty to God, to oneself, to one’s family, to the Church, and to one’s country represents a goal for which we should all strive and which was given by the Lord as he taught the Nephites:“Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect.” Again, these words were not given to discourage or to tempt us to desert, but rather to motivate us to be prepared and not to be afraid. Prepared to do what? The Lord has commanded us again and again to be prepared to “live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God,”  to serve him with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength (see To endure in obedience and service is contrary to desertion. It is to continue without perishing; to last; to remain firm when under trial; to suffer or bear up patiently; to endure hardship; to withstand pain, sorrow, or destructive force without yielding.The encouraging factor in recognizing adversity is that we are not alone. The Lord told Joseph Smith, “Be patient in afflictions, for thou shalt have many; but endure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days.” George Q. Cannon wrote in  “So it is with all of us. We have great afflictions from time to time. It seems to be necessary that we should be tried and proved to see whether we are full of integrity or not. In this way we get to know ourselves and our own weaknesses; and the Lord knows us, and our brethren and sisters know us.“Therefore, it is a precious gift to have the gift of patience, to be good-tempered, to be cheerful, to not be depressed, to not give way to wrong feelings and become impatient and irritable. It is a blessed gift for all to possess.” (Jerreld L. Newquist, ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, 2:198.)Yes, there are obstacles and challenges. Men sometimes become cynical. Some despair and lose hope and faith in the future, but the message stands: do not abandon, for the Lord lives. He is our Savior and Redeemer; he is the Prince of Peace. The great assurance of life, the great reason for eternal life, is the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no other way.There is only one way. The teachings of our duty to God determine our duty to ourselves, to our families, to our church, and to our country. No vacillation can be permitted, for “no man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.” President George Albert Smith’s grandfather said: “There is a line of demarcation well defined between the Lord’s territory and the devil’s territory. If you will remain on the Lord’s side of the line, the adversary cannot come there to tempt you. You are perfectly safe as long as you stay on the Lord’s side of the line. But … if you cross onto the devil’s side of the line, you are in his territory, and you are in his power, and he will work on you to get you just as far from that line as he possibly can, knowing that he can only succeed in destroying you by keeping you away from the place where there is safety.” (Quoted by George Albert Smith in Conference Report, Oct. 1945, p. 118.)Persistence in seeking the influence of the Holy Ghost and living the commandments of God lead to eternal life.When we consider that we are, as individuals, looking at two powers, the Church and the world, good and evil, truth and error, how can we avoid being torn apart when we know these powers are moving in two opposite directions? We put both feet in the Church and prepare ourselves to be engaged totally and forever.There is an old fable about a king and a jester. One day the king decided to reward the jester, so he called him in, offered him a beautiful staff, and told him, “You may keep this beautiful staff until you find a bigger fool than you.”Time passed and one day the king became very seriously ill, called the jester, and told him that he would probably go on a long journey and never return. The jester then asked him, “And have you made any provisions for a journey that lasts forever?”The king answered, “No.”The jester then handed the king the staff and told him, “King, if you have made no provisions for a journey that lasts forever, this staff belongs to you. You are a bigger fool than I.”Have we made our provisions? Are we preparing ourselves to face one of the greatest temptations: to desert the service of the Lord in moments of doubt or trial, which may lead to other desertions?Shakespeare’s Hamlet voiced the question, “To be, or not to be?” when he was at the verge of despair and self-destruction. ( act 3, sc. 1, line 56.) May I rephrase that:In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we have the answer to that question, a divine answer that we  be, that we can live to be a true disciple, that we can live to be a follower of Christ—true to the end because of our testimony.Our testimony to the world is that Jesus is the Christ, our Savior and our Redeemer, that Joseph Smith is the Prophet who restored truth upon the earth, and that this church is a divine church, of which I also testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.