“  We must fight!’ gurgled the hoarse voice of a man who had lain stiff in the devouring mud ever since our awakening; ‘we’ve got to!’ His body turned heavily over. ‘We’ve got to give all we have, our strength and our skins and our hearts, all our life and what pleasures are left us. The life of prisoners as we are, we’ve got to take it in both hands. You’ve got to endure everything, even injustice—and  the king that’s reigning now—and the shameful and disgusting sights we see, so as to come out on top, and win. But if we’ve got to make such a sacrifice,’ adds the shapeless man, turning over again, ‘it’s because we’re fighting for progress, not for a country; against error, not against a country.’” (Henri Barbusse,  trans. Fitzwater Wray, New York: E. T. Dutton and Co., 1917, p. 345.)“I don’t want to die,” screamed a crying voice from a body put against a wall. There were brief orders for the firing squad, “Ready, aim, fire!” Silence followed. The soldiers returned to their quarters. They had just witnessed the execution of a deserter. (A scene from the battlefield, somewhere in France, 1917.)Somewhere else, yesterday, in the mission field, a dialogue between a missionary and a priesthood leader:“Elder, you were called by a prophet of the Lord to serve Him. Do you remember when you received your call, signed personally by a prophet of the Lord? He said that you would be expected to devote all of your time and attention to serving the Lord, leaving behind all other personal affairs.”The answer came quickly: “I don’t want to serve anymore. I don’t like the people; I don’t like the country; I don’t even like the food!”“Well, what do you like, then?”“Oh,” he replied slowly, “I like to drive my car. I want to go home.”Somewhere else in the world, many years ago, some children, a father, a mother were sitting in their living room holding a family council. A tragedy was developing. The children were pleading with their father to stay and live with them. After a pause, the father uttered these words: “I cannot stay. I need to live my own life.” And he left.Somewhere else, in San Francisco, two weeks ago, a short notice in the paper: “Three people decided to surrender to death and jumped from the Bay Bridge.”Somewhere else, some two thousand years ago, in a crowd of five thousand Jews, five thousand followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, there was another dialogue. The crowd: “Rabbi, when camest thou hither?“Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.“Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.“Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?“Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.” “And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.” The Jews then murmured. Even some of the disciples murmured. Following a brief silence, two decisions were made.The first one: “From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.”  They followed their own way.The second one: “Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.”  They followed the way, the only true way.To desert, defect, give up, resign, surrender, renounce, abdicate, yield, apostatize, withdraw, back out, abandon—each of these words has almost the same meaning. We could find one for every situation in our lives where we might vacillate when facing what is called duty—duty to country, duty to church, duty to family, duty to oneself, duty to God.To vacillate is to hesitate in choosing a course, to try to move in two different directions at the same time, or to try simply to serve two masters. One of the greatest temptations that man has faced throughout half of history is the temptation to serve himself and to satisfy his own appetites first. This choice can lead to the spirit of desertion. Whoever  are, rich or poor, powerful or humble, faithful or not—all are subject to this temptation.Adjusting to life’s challenges is not easy, and too often we issue ultimatums to those who represent life: our Heavenly Father, ourselves, a parent, a bishop, a neighbor. Ultimatums vary: “I will stop paying tithing,” or “I will leave home,” or “Let me be released,” or “I will take my life.” They vary from silent opposition to murmuring or violence.Since the premortal existence the Lord has warned against serving ourselves and satisfying our own appetites first.“They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in … Babylon the great, which shall fall.” The Lord has also helped us avoid this situation:“Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;”“And also those to whom these commandments were given, might have power to lay the foundation of this church, and to bring it forth out of obscurity and out of darkness, the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth, with which I, the Lord, am well pleased, speaking unto the church collectively and not individually.” All the teachings of the Lord and the prophets carry that persistent message, to persuade the world to know him and his father through a living prophet and his church. Once this vision is given, it will help us make the decision to endure to the end.The permanent duty to God, to oneself, to one’s family, to the Church, and to one’s country represents a goal for which we should all strive and which was given by the Lord as he taught the Nephites:“Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect.” Again, these words were not given to discourage or to tempt us to desert, but rather to motivate us to be prepared and not to be afraid. Prepared to do what? The Lord has commanded us again and again to be prepared to “live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God,”  to serve him with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength (see To endure in obedience and service is contrary to desertion. It is to continue without perishing; to last; to remain firm when under trial; to suffer or bear up patiently; to endure hardship; to withstand pain, sorrow, or destructive force without yielding.The encouraging factor in recognizing adversity is that we are not alone. The Lord told Joseph Smith, “Be patient in afflictions, for thou shalt have many; but endure them, for, lo, I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days.” George Q. Cannon wrote in  “So it is with all of us. We have great afflictions from time to time. It seems to be necessary that we should be tried and proved to see whether we are full of integrity or not. In this way we get to know ourselves and our own weaknesses; and the Lord knows us, and our brethren and sisters know us.“Therefore, it is a precious gift to have the gift of patience, to be good-tempered, to be cheerful, to not be depressed, to not give way to wrong feelings and become impatient and irritable. It is a blessed gift for all to possess.” (Jerreld L. Newquist, ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, 2:198.)Yes, there are obstacles and challenges. Men sometimes become cynical. Some despair and lose hope and faith in the future, but the message stands: do not abandon, for the Lord lives. He is our Savior and Redeemer; he is the Prince of Peace. The great assurance of life, the great reason for eternal life, is the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no other way.There is only one way. The teachings of our duty to God determine our duty to ourselves, to our families, to our church, and to our country. No vacillation can be permitted, for “no man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.” President George Albert Smith’s grandfather said: “There is a line of demarcation well defined between the Lord’s territory and the devil’s territory. If you will remain on the Lord’s side of the line, the adversary cannot come there to tempt you. You are perfectly safe as long as you stay on the Lord’s side of the line. But … if you cross onto the devil’s side of the line, you are in his territory, and you are in his power, and he will work on you to get you just as far from that line as he possibly can, knowing that he can only succeed in destroying you by keeping you away from the place where there is safety.” (Quoted by George Albert Smith in Conference Report, Oct. 1945, p. 118.)Persistence in seeking the influence of the Holy Ghost and living the commandments of God lead to eternal life.When we consider that we are, as individuals, looking at two powers, the Church and the world, good and evil, truth and error, how can we avoid being torn apart when we know these powers are moving in two opposite directions? We put both feet in the Church and prepare ourselves to be engaged totally and forever.There is an old fable about a king and a jester. One day the king decided to reward the jester, so he called him in, offered him a beautiful staff, and told him, “You may keep this beautiful staff until you find a bigger fool than you.”Time passed and one day the king became very seriously ill, called the jester, and told him that he would probably go on a long journey and never return. The jester then asked him, “And have you made any provisions for a journey that lasts forever?”The king answered, “No.”The jester then handed the king the staff and told him, “King, if you have made no provisions for a journey that lasts forever, this staff belongs to you. You are a bigger fool than I.”Have we made our provisions? Are we preparing ourselves to face one of the greatest temptations: to desert the service of the Lord in moments of doubt or trial, which may lead to other desertions?Shakespeare’s Hamlet voiced the question, “To be, or not to be?” when he was at the verge of despair and self-destruction. ( act 3, sc. 1, line 56.) May I rephrase that:In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we have the answer to that question, a divine answer that we  be, that we can live to be a true disciple, that we can live to be a follower of Christ—true to the end because of our testimony.Our testimony to the world is that Jesus is the Christ, our Savior and our Redeemer, that Joseph Smith is the Prophet who restored truth upon the earth, and that this church is a divine church, of which I also testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I solemnly testify to you that God the Eternal Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, have appeared in this dispensation. These two glorious personages actually stood before and spoke to the young man Joseph Smith.This occurred in 1820. Since then the heavens have remained open. The fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored by revelation. Angels have been sent as holy messengers. We have been given records of God’s dealings with His children. The Holy Spirit has poured out the truths of God’s plan for the exaltation of His sons and daughters.The true church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has been organized under the direction of Jesus Christ Himself.Prophets and Apostles have been called. They have been given power from on high. They are special witnesses of Jesus Christ in all the world.They are sent out, holding the keys, to open the doors for the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. By their work the doors are being opened. The gospel is being proclaimed throughout the world.Being inspired and directed by the Lord, these prophets, seers, and revelators have called upon the disciples of Jesus Christ and have sent them forth by commandment, which commandment is:“And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.“And they shall go forth and none shall stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them.“Wherefore, fear and tremble, O ye people, for what I the Lord have decreed in them shall be fulfilled.” Presently there are about thirty thousand missionaries serving in 188 missions. They are proclaiming the restored gospel in 82 nations, territories, and possessions in 48 different languages.Thousands of our Father’s children are hearing the gospel, are obtaining testimonies of its truthfulness, and are being baptized into His true church. There are now some five million members.We are humbled and greatly pleased with the success that attends the labors. We acknowledge the hand of the Lord and the dedication of His disciples in what has been accomplished up to now. But there is still much left to be done.We feel a great urgency for the work and wonder if we could cause it to be accelerated.There is concern as to whether all of those who should and could participate in this work really understand and believe the basic principles and purposes for which God’s firm decree, to declare this gospel to all the world, was given.Although there are thirty thousand missionaries now serving, there should and could be many times that many. If they would prepare themselves and step forward to do that which is their decreed duty, the work could be done at a rate and in dimensions beyond our highest expectations.I have pondered and prayed about this matter. I have searched for words and pleaded to the heavens for power to say them so as to motivate those who should be faithful in this work.The words have come into my mind. They are simple words. They have oft been taught. To say them is to repeat what you have heard over and over again.They invite us to come unto Christ and be perfected in Him. This is done by serving Him with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength. If we do this, we receive a remission of our sins and become holy and without spot and may return to our Heavenly Father to dwell again with Him, to live the kind of life He lives.The Savior stands with His hands extended, offering us glorious blessings if we will serve Him. As we study what He means by this service we come to understand that it is fundamentally the service of teaching the truths of His gospel to those who do not know it.But even with the simplicity of the words and the divine source from which they come, and even with the sure promise of blessings, there are still those who should and could serve who choose not to serve.It causes me to wonder if they really understand and believe the twofold nature of the purpose of missionary work: first, to sanctify the missionary himself, and second, to bring converts to a knowledge of the truths of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and to baptism into His Church—which is the sure and natural product of a missionary who is in the process of sanctification.Satan is attempting to block this work. His influence is insidious and persistent. Many who should and could do this work are falling victim to his influence.Some are being deceived and are slipping away from that which is true to experiment with that which is false and foolish.May I talk to you young men who are approaching or are now the age to be called into missionary service.Some of you say in your minds, “Oh well, you just don’t understand my case. My situation is different. I plan to be a great lawyer, or doctor, or athlete, or some other great person. Surely neither you nor the Lord would expect me to leave my studies at such an important time. A mission would interfere with my future plans.”Others are thinking, “Yes, I know about missions, but if you had a girl friend like mine, you’d never leave her. What will happen to her while I’m gone?”Yet others of you are thinking, “Missions cost so much. I just got this job. I just purchased a car and a stereo. It’s just the time of life when I’m starting to get things together for myself. I can’t drop all that now. I just can’t afford it.”Then there are also those who are thinking, “My situation disqualifies me. I have fallen into transgression and am not participating in the Church. I had always planned on being a missionary, but I slipped and now I don’t live the standards required of a missionary.”If I could listen to you separately, each case would unfold with one thing in common. All would justify yourselves in not doing your duty to God.Many of you are attempting to justify yourselves even against the correct counsel and teachings of your parents. They love you. They would support you in every way to do what’s right if you would allow it.But unfortunately there are also parents who side with you in your justification. They have made plans for your future, and those plans do not include missionary service. They say, “My son is going to be a great lawyer or doctor or star athlete. He can’t interrupt his studies to go gallivanting out in the world for two years. Let someone else’s sons do that. My son is special.”If I could speak separately to each of you young men and your parents who so justify, I would say with all the power of speech I could generate, “Just who do you think you are? What right do you have to match your wisdom with that of God, who through His prophets has issued a firm decree, a solemn mandate, that the restored gospel must be declared to all the world by the voice of His disciples? This means you!”I would remind you of the Lord’s own words as He addressed those who “doeth not anything” and who have doubtful hearts.“Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?“Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled?“I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing.“Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But wo unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above.” Do you really believe that earthly fame and title, tied to earthly positions and occupations, can compare with God’s promises to the faithful? He has promised “thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers.” He has promised “exaltation and glory in all things.” He has promised “a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever.” He has promised eternal life. I would say to you that you are left without excuse and without justification and that you have placed your eternal salvation in grave danger.Your education can wait. The Lord will open the doors of education and a proper vocation for you when you return from your missionary service.And speaking of your girl friends, the Father wants to give you one of His elect daughters, one who is loved and cherished by Him, one who is pure, one who understands eternal values and is striving for exaltation.Surely you cannot expect this to happen if you are not faithful in doing that which would make you worthy of her as an eternal companion. It is after your missionary service has helped to sanctify you that this can happen.Lest I be misunderstood, may I say to you young women, this also applies to you. Many of you say, “What will I ever do if he leaves me?” You hold him back. You allow your association with him to go beyond where it should. You often contribute to his decision not to serve. You sometimes even contribute to his unworthiness to serve. By so doing you are also disqualifying yourself from your intended blessings.Let him go. Don’t just let him go, but encourage him! You are perhaps the strongest single influence on him at this time in his life. You can make all the difference. Help keep him clean. Help him to be prepared.Perhaps you would also like to, and should, serve as a missionary. Many lady missionaries are now serving. The same blessings promised to young men are extended to you. Although your most important role in this life is motherhood, it may be appropriate for you to serve a mission first.For those of you who feel you cannot serve because you have slipped into transgression, I would say, “Don’t despair. There is a way back. The plan of repentance really works. You can take steps to return to full worthiness. You can make acceptable restitution and place yourself in the service of the Lord.”If I could speak separately with each bishop and stake president about those who should and could be serving as missionaries, I would say, “You have a most important obligation. It is your sacred duty to work with them and their parents until they understand, and do, their duty.“You cannot leave them hanging as fruit on a tree, maturing, ripening, and then falling to the ground to spoil or be devoured, with no one concerned for conserving the harvest. If you do, you will assuredly be held accountable. The day will come when you will stand before the judgment bar of God to give account for them, name by name, every one.”This is a marvelous plan. It is a process of sanctification. When a missionary is placed in a mission environment of order and discipline where all that is done is in harmony with the Spirit, the missionary experiences a great transformation. The heavens open. Powers are showered out. Mysteries are revealed. Habits are improved. Sanctification begins. Through this process the missionary becomes a vessel of light that can shine forth the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in darkness.There is much to do. You are the royal generation that has been “hid from the world with Christ” to come forth in this day to do the work. (See You must prepare. You must now make yourselves worthy and available. If you do not, the work will go on without you. It will go on at a slower pace, but it will go on. If you are not part of it, if you do not do your duty, what will happen to you? How will you be sanctified?If you do not do your duty, those whom you could have taught but did not will eventually have their opportunity to hear the gospel from someone else, but what of you? How will you be sanctified?Missions are for missionaries. It is a marvelous gift of time, a time given when you can experience glimpses of heavenly life here on earth. It is a time of cleansing and refreshing. It is a special time when the Holy Ghost can seal upon you the knowledge of the great plan for your exaltation. It is one of your best opportunities to become a celestial candidate.The teaching and conversion of others is the natural product of this process. To sanctify yourself you must serve others. The highest of all service to others is to teach them truth and bring them into the kingdom of God.Thus the decree: Send forth the elders and preach my gospel to every kindred, tongue, and people. (See In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.