What a special delight it is, brothers and sisters, to stand in your presence once more, to feel of your great spirit. I’m just glad we’re friends.You know, conference is a great time for spiritual uplift, for association, and for wise counsel. With all the counsel I’ve been hearing, I couldn’t help but reminisce a little bit about the young athlete who attempted most all sports but had never tried skydiving. And so he took several theoretical courses in how to jump.When the day came for the solo flight, he became a little fearful, so he approached his instructor and said, “I’m not sure I want to go through with this.”The instructor said, “Don’t worry. We’ll protect you by putting two added parachutes on you.”The plane took off and arrived at the three thousand foot level. With some fear and trepidation he was pushed out.On the way down, at about two thousand feet, he remembered that that’s when you pull the rip cord. He did so, and the chute didn’t open. He pulled the second, and it didn’t open. He pulled the third, and it didn’t open.To his amazement, at about that time he met in the air, coming up from the ground, another man. They passed on the way. The young parachutist shouted to his new friend, “Pardon me,” he said, “do you know anything about parachutes?”“No,” his friend shouted back, “what do you know about Coleman lanterns?”I suppose it seems all of us are in need of good counsel. Quite often parents and many young people ask the question, “How do you teach the gospel so that it’s meaningful and applicable?” Do you know, my brothers and sisters, that learning any concept or principle or changing any behavior pattern requires five important steps? you have to expose a person.  is the law of repetition.  is to give understanding, the why. People of all ages want to know the whys of the gospel, not just the rules. This is the most important aspect of teaching because the  step, that of conviction, and the  application, cannot occur until we understand.Too often our answers to young people’s inquiries are “Well, because the scriptures say so” or “That is what the leaders tell us.” Young people want to know why the scriptures say so and why the leaders are so concerned.Let me just share a little personal experience that happened some years ago at the university.I’d been in a very special meeting with some young people. We had been talking about temple marriage. As we departed the session, I was walking with three young ladies, one of whom I knew quite well. I had become aware that she had been dating a boy out of the faith, and I just cautiously suggested to her that you tend to marry those you date. I said, “I am planning on the day when I can perform your sealing in the temple.”She looked at me and she said, “Well, I may not get married in the temple.”And I said, “Why not?”And she looked at me as only young people can, and said, “Why should I?”All right, mom and dad, teacher. What do you tell them?Like most teachers, I paused to stall and think. Then, hoping for inspiration, I said, “Well, why shouldn’t you?”She looked at me and she said, “Do you really want to know?”And I said, “Please.”She said, “How well do you know my father?”I said, “Reasonably well.”She said, “My dad puts on a pretty good front. Oh, he’s a fine man, but he’s a little hypocritical.” She said, “You ought to see the way he treats my mom and us at home. And you know, my mom and dad were married in the temple. And I don’t want a marriage like that.” She said, “How well do you know Brother and Sister So-and-so?”—another acquaintance.I said, “I know them.”She said, “Did you know I babysit for them. They too are married in the temple, and I wouldn’t care for a marriage like that.” She said, “How well do you know Mr. and Mrs. So-and-so?” This is a wonderful member of our community, not of our faith. Ten children. She said, “I babysit that family too, and I’d like a marriage like theirs.”Now what do you say, mom and dad? Teacher? The scriptures say so? Well, that’s what the leaders teach. Young people are after whys and wherefores.I was still a little puzzled. Standing nearby was another young lady. I turned to her and I said, “How do you answer that?”She was alert. She turned to her friend and she said, “Jan, you’re not fair.”Jan said, “Why not?”She said, “Because you’re judging the whole church by two or three examples that don’t represent, necessarily, what we believe and teach or how we should live.” She said, “Let me ask you a question. When was the last time you had a little personal crisis, maybe a frustrating date, a test, a social situation that worried you a little bit, where your dad sensed it and came into your bedroom and sat on the edge of the bed and stroked your head and said, ‘Wouldn’t you like a blessing tonight?’”Jan looked at her and said, “Well, my dad doesn’t do that.”The little girl said, “My dad does.”And then together they talked about how her dad regularly taught the family. An experience was shared regarding family prayer. She listed some eight or nine such moments without even pausing. I could see a little change in Jan’s heart. You could see in Jan’s eyes the expression, “Oh! I would like a husband like that.”I had the thrill some months later of performing that marriage, in the temple. I’d like to think that night, a change occurred.Most wrong choices before and after marriage are not made out of rebellion or intentional error but because of misinformation, miscommunication, and lack of understanding. In most cases, if couples truly understood the whats and the whys and the hows of eternal marriage, no one would have to talk them into the right choices. Indeed, no one would be able to talk them out of them!Let me ask you young people a question: have you ever wondered why God would restrict us from some things, advise us strongly against them, warn us, even command us? Do you think his commandments are just arbitrary whims, artificial tests of some kind, generalities that are important for some people but not for others?I don’t think so! His commandments are  Our understanding and concept of God as a loving and personal Heavenly Father allows us no other definition. He gives us commandments for one reason only—because he loves us and wants us to be happy. Chastity is a perfect example. God simply knows that virtue is its own reward, that the saving of oneself for one eternal partner makes that commitment more beautiful, more joyful. It is the simple question of whether you want a penny now or a diamond later. Any momentary pleasure that might result from a premarital relationship cannot be compared with the vastly greater joy of oneness in marriage. And the indulgence in the former can destroy the potential for the latter.Chastity is like money in the bank. As you save yourself you are  the joy of belonging to one and only one. You are saving the joy of being able to say, “I am all yours, and I have never been anyone else’s.”Some will ask, “What if we already know who ‘the one’ is? What if the commitment is already there and we’re just waiting for the ceremony?” The answer is,  it’s a covenant, both with God and with your partner, and  shows the deepest love and respect for both.Some will say, “But we love each other too much to wait.” The answer is that there is no such thing as too much love and that it is too much selfishness, not love, that debates divine counsel and violates virtue.Any love that is to become eternal must include respect, faith, trust, admiration, honor, and have spiritual and mental aspects as well as physical and emotional. No relationship, either temporal or eternal, can exist without these attributes. Every soap opera is filled with accurate illustrations of misery because these qualities are absent.If, in your case, the physical tends to dominate, all the more reason to bridle it and find the other dimensions.  is the word that wise father Alma used in counseling his son Shiblon, and the promise he attached is the key to understanding: “Bridle … your passions, that ye may be filled with love.”  Bridling increases strength, increases power, increases love. There are absolutely two ways you can control a horse. (We learned a little bit about horses last night.) One is to kill it; one is to bridle it. Alma never said kill your passions. The implication is  that passions are evil, that we shouldn’t have them. On the contrary, we bridle something we love, something whose power we respect.A horse is stronger than a man, so the man bridles it, thus  its power and using that power for good. Passions are stronger than we are, so we bridle them, thus controlling their power and using that power to strengthen a marriage and forge it into eternity. One has to know  to bridle a horse or a passion.Remember, a physical relationship is simply too beautiful to squander, too wonderful to waste. It is the sterling silver too precious to tarnish before the beauty of the banquet.Let us remember that understanding “the why” in learning is what develops proper attitudes or changes behavior. God grant us the wisdom to teach wisely and with understanding, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I feel very humble and privileged this afternoon to be in your presence, brothers and sisters. I hope and pray that the Spirit of the Lord will be with me so that I might be able to communicate with you. He has spoken to his children in the past; he has spoken to us in our day, to our people in his last dispensation. Our Father introduced his Son, Jesus Christ, to the people who lived on the American continent.The Book of Mormon testifies: “They heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.“And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound  and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came.“And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them;  italics added.)I know that the same Father spoke to the Jewish people in the eastern hemisphere. When our Lord Jesus Christ was baptized, the Bible testifies, “And, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him:“And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”  Joseph Smith testified: “I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.“… When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—” and eastern hemispheres, I know that our Heavenly Father’s own testimony is true: Jesus of Nazareth is his Beloved Son, in whom he is well pleased. Hear ye him! that he walked by the Sea of Galilee and the fields and plains of Palestine. It is his own testimony that we should hear, the one he bore to Martha, the sister of his friend Lazarus. Yesterday Elder Monson referred to this scripture:“I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?” Brothers and sisters, I believe this with all my heart and with all my soul.  Through the restoration of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, he has provided the way to find eternal happiness, true happiness.Brothers and sisters, many of our Father’s children in Japan and Korea also believe our Heavenly Father’s testimony and listen to his Beloved Son.Shortly before coming to this conference, I received a beautiful letter from a woman who had lost her husband thirteen years ago. I will read it to you. She said: “I was left alone to raise my two sons. As I was attending the baptismal service of my eldest son, who is attending senior high school, I could not help but feel the beautiful atmosphere that surrounded me. I was so impressed by the sweet spirit of the Saints; how exuberant and humble I felt. I observed my son, dressed in white, going down into the water. The stake president’s wife, who was whispering to me, told me that his sins would be washed away. I was so overwhelmed by the beauty of this moment that I felt my tears well up and my heart cried for joy. At that moment I wanted to know about myself. What about me? What about me? Was it possible that I, too, could experience a washing away of my sins? If my sins could be washed away and made clean once more, I too wanted to be baptized.”After four days of studying and praying with the missionaries, she too came to accept the Savior and was baptized. Shortly thereafter, her youngest son also entered into the waters of baptism. Now Sister Masako Anan and her two boys are preparing to go to the Tokyo Temple to be sealed as a family with their deceased father for time and all eternity. Oh, how glorious is the power of the gospel which can change the hearts of people from sorrow and despair to happiness and joy! Oh, how glorious it is to know that the power conferred upon Joseph Smith can change the hearts of the people! and that the true church of God has been reestablished here upon this earth. I humbly extend my invitation to all my friends everywhere, and I say humbly today, “Come partake of this living water. Believe the testimony of the Father: ‘[This is] my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, … hear ye him.’” I know for those who wish to hear the Father’s beloved Son, the Book of Mormon like the Bible has a familiar voice. It is the word of God and has the power to change men’s souls.May I give you an example of a Korean brother who heard the Savior’s voice? Brother Choi had left his wife, two children, and his mother for nine months. One day our missionaries were tracting in the city of Kwang Ju, Korea. They found his family. The family began to study with the missionaries and were baptized shortly.The missionaries started the family home evening program with this family.One day the seven-year-old daughter purchased a Book of Mormon from a missionary and sent it with her simple, yet beautiful testimony to her daddy. Two missionaries took that book to her father and bore their strong, firm testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel and the importance of the family. Her father wondered why these people were so concerned and kind to him and his family. When evening came, he began to read, and heard a familiar voice of the Lord. He was so inspired and found it to be true. And also he found the testimony written by his daughter. I would like to share it with you, brothers and sisters. She said:“Aboji, Aboji, Aboji (which interpreted is “Daddy, Daddy, Daddy”), I want to have family home evening with you! Please come back! We love you! I love you! I need you! I want you to read this book! Heavenly Father loves you!”Brother Choi was so inspired and magnified by reading the Book of Mormon and touched by it and touched by his daughter’s testimony that he asked the missionaries to baptize him. Therefore this family was reunited, and Brother Choi is now the bishop of the Kwang Ju Third Ward. He sits in this hall today, a living example of one who heard the Savior’s voice from the Book of Mormon.Oh, how we need the missionaries of the Lord to carry the Father’s testimony of his Beloved Son to every people, kindred, and tongue! There must be many Bishop Chois and there must be many Sister Anans in your own neighborhoods.I know Spencer W. Kimball is a prophet of the Lord. He is a living prophet. He instructs us that we should lengthen our stride, quicken our pace with a sense of urgency; do it now! President Kimball, you are a living prophet of the Lord; you are a man scorned and covered with scars like Job of old, and yet you are ready to move forward, to climb another mountain. We love you. We need you.Brothers and sisters, why don’t we pay more humble attention to this servant of the Lord so that we can lengthen our own stride and share this beautiful gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ with another Bishop Choi and another Sister Anan. I humbly pray in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.