My beloved brothers and sisters and friends, sometimes when I hear the wonderful local choirs, I tell the members that I sing with the Tabernacle Choir at conference. Oh, to be sure, I don’t sit in the choir seats because I don’t sing well enough, but I do sit here below and silently sing along with them because their music is so beautiful. A line from one of their numbers that we all love is, “As I have loved you, love one another.” May I talk about this for a few minutes today—the love of God and loving one another.A little story given by one of your missionary sons in Italy a few weeks ago brought this clearly into focus for me.He recounted that one morning a poor little crippled boy in ragged clothes and badly worn shoes came to a busy street corner and went from person to person, begging for a few lira without success. A man observing the boy from a distance finally went over and picked up this little lad, held him tightly and loved him, and then went forth and cared for him with his means without any judgment.This sight would have touched any heart and helps us see the power of love that our Father in Heaven would have us understand in our lives. Jesus, the beloved Son of God, reemphasized this new dimension to bless the world when He said, “A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another.” As we step back and try to understand this love of God, we are astounded by its profound impact. At its center is the reality of a literal Father in Heaven whose love for His children knows no bounds. All truths, wisdom, power, goodness, and love He desires to share with His children, whom He created and sent to earth. He would have us reach up and know Him as a Father, as one who forgives, as a helper, as friend, as lawgiver—as one anxious to grant to every man the full opportunity of His love and potential and ultimately the blessing to one day become like Him. This love from Father in Heaven and its effects upon  of His children or the whole world is miraculous and contagious. He is constantly and everlastingly watching over us to lovingly and gently nudge us along.He reaches down, through His Son; through prayer, His spirit, His prophets; and through His commandments to express His love and concern and provide His guidance and discipline to everyone who will listen. As the Psalmist said, “The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord.” He loves us so much that He gave us His most sacred eternal truths—His commandments—eternal standards to live by. To help us understand their importance, He revealed and surrounded them in sacred and holy settings. Who does not remember how the Ten Commandments were given? Men have constantly changed these commandments, but we testify to the world, they have been restored on this earth through a prophet of God because they are essential, eternal truths and if altered by man, lose their power. We testify to the world that these laws—commandments—standards—are one of the highest manifestations of the love God has for His children. Yes, they are commandments—absolutes—to plant the seeds of God’s love, His ways, and His divinity in us. They are the fountainhead of all real security, and the inner man recognizes this instinctively and rejoices.This same loving God also “so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son”  to perform a myriad of blessings for all mankind, including the offering of His own life to atone for man. He lived His life to demonstrate that the love of our Father in Heaven and His plan, His commandments, could in fact bring inner peace and lift mankind here and hereafter.My assignments these past few months have taken me to many lands, and with all my heart this morning I want to bear witness to the fact that when God’s love is known and felt and His commandments followed, the results are always the same. There is a newness of life—a spiritual awakening—that comes to man, its own witness that it is true. It is never forced or brought about by fear, but rather by a bond of love that develops between our Father in Heaven and His children. It is no wonder that we are counseled to look to God and live. This love reaches deep into the inner man, removes barriers, and causes an open spirit to emerge to be receptive to truth, goodness, and change. As it develops in man, he is turned outward toward others—gradually overcoming himself. When we humbly seek our Father in Heaven by prayer, and by learning and keeping His commandments, He transfers to us His love and many of His powers. Thousands bear witness that His words “If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love”  are true. We then, as the Savior said, begin to attach ourselves as branches to the “true vine” and receive the same strength and power and can expect the same fruit. (See Then the miracle really happens. Men thus touched and changed by this love of God begin to look upon their neighbors with profound respect and awe for who they are, what their potential really is as children of an eternal father.I had a very special experience a few years ago on an assignment to Oregon. After a stake conference I was asked to bless a little child. A couple was ushered into a room, and I learned that day what the love of God really was. They had adopted six or seven abandoned, physically handicapped little children who would need their love and care the rest of their lives. I felt humble in their presence, and the love of God filled that room that day. They were no more strangers to God.As man perceives this love, he begins to overlook the flaws that make up every mortal being and to “esteem his brother as himself.”  He lifts and desires to help him whenever and wherever he can. Man’s spirit reaches out to everyone, for now there is no enmity, no envy, no restricting philosophies, pride, or vanity—even language does not separate men—there is only an openness and oneness with the Spirit and will of God. The scriptures are beautiful and clear:“There [will be] no contention in the land,” “because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts.”  Does this mean that those who embrace these things will be perfect? No, for they will forever be overcoming and growing. But it does mean that they will be striving toward perfection. The great prophet Moroni counseled us with a profound insight on this point when he said, “Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my father … but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have been.” It is by achieving this gift, this love of God, that we are able to crowd out contention, discord, and judgments. It recognizes the power and goodness innate in man and how totally inconsistent it would be for one having these feelings—this love from God in their lives—to find himself judging others, not sustaining His leaders, for these things are absolutely foreign to the love of God. Our Father in Heaven said that “no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love.” As in the case of the man who picked up the little crippled boy, there are no reproachments or judgments—just love and help.How is this love of God manifest today upon the earth and in His church and among its members?By a Father in Heaven who sent His beloved Son to help man to see His example and follow.By a Father in Heaven who has established His kingdom, His church, His love and commandments here upon this earth wherein all His blessings may be had and His love felt.By a loving Father in Heaven who has provided a prophet today and Apostles to receive His word and guide His children.By families who are filled with this love and gratitude to God, reaching out everyday to teach their children love, these highest standards, and the peaceable things of God.By fathers and mothers and children, who, touched by the love of God, unashamedly take each other in their arms often and openly express their love and never give up on those within their circle who especially need their love.By over thirty thousand missionaries, who, at their own expense, go forth in love to the people everywhere on this earth and take these powers to all who will listen.And by wonderful leaders and teachers who, though imperfect, reach out to our children and youth in countless ways to help them build bridges to God—His love and goodness.A few Sundays ago as I sat in a sacrament meeting in Germany, tears of gratitude filled my eyes and my heart was full. I saw eighty-two little children sing songs of love to their Heavenly Father. I was so grateful for the Church which has been reestablished upon the earth, and that I too had one day been a Primary child, and my children also, and had learned those songs and the love they express. I’ve sung those songs thousands of times since my youth and am grateful for the love and the message they bring. On this very same day in that sacrament meeting was a new convert who is awaiting the arrival of her first child. She was so touched by the children, the Church, the Primary, and the love of our Heavenly Father that was there. She later excitedly said, “Oh, I can hardly wait to have my child so she can go to Primary.”My beloved friends, this is only one of the many great programs and blessings that our Father in Heaven has provided in His church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Yes, there is a place of beauty—a refuge upon the earth—where the unchanging standards revealed by a loving Father in Heaven are found.Now all of this is really what the Lord had in mind, isn’t it, when he said, “As I have loved you, … love one another.”  That will forever be the ultimate invitation of the Lord to everyone everywhere. We invite all men with all our love to come and partake of this spirit, this peace, this love of God that is in His kingdom here upon the earth today.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.President Kimball, I express the feelings of the people of this worldwide Church in saying that we love you, President Tanner, President Romney, and are grateful that the Lord has performed miracles in your lives so that you can continue to carry on the great work of building the kingdom of God.We are living in a remarkable age—the dispensation of the fulness of times—but we are living in a troubled world. The powers of evil are visible in false doctrines, corrupt morals, strife, contention, and persecution. Fears abound in the hearts of many.A universal question in the hearts and minds of men and women in all parts of the world is, “What is the purpose of life?”The restored gospel of Jesus Christ answers this question. In modern revelation the Lord has told us, “If you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.” Therefore, in essence the purpose of life is to prepare us for the greatest gift of God, eternal life.The restored gospel explains that we existed as spirit entities before being born into this sphere of activity—yes, spirit children of our Father in Heaven. We came to this earth for our spirits to receive bodies of flesh and bones and to receive experiences wherein we are proved and tested to see, as the scripture states, if we “will do all things whatsoever the Lord … shall command.” The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches the value of eternal progression. We progressed in the premortal existence, and we have the opportunity to progress in this estate and throughout all eternity. Each of us is endowed with gifts and talents, and through study, prayer, proper work habits, and the use of our gifts and talents, we can accomplish our eternal objectives.Study, particularly of the scriptures, is an important factor. We are counseled to “seek learning, even by study and also by faith.”  Eternal progress involves continual study. The Lord has told us that “the glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth.” Also, “Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.“And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come.” President Spencer W. Kimball has counseled us in this manner: “Let us … seek to read and understand and apply the principles and inspired counsel found within the [scriptures]. If we do so, we shall discover that our personal  of righteousness will also bring  when needed into our own lives.” ( Sept. 1975, p. 4.)An abundance of modern revelation is to be found in latter-day scriptures. These scriptures explain in detail how to meet today’s challenges. Knowledge received from studying the scriptures assists us in making correct decisions in all areas of life’s activities and helps us to know God and understand his purposes.Now, with reference to the part that prayer plays in accomplishing our eternal objectives, the Savior instructed his disciples to “pray always”  saying: “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you” The Prophet Joseph Smith observed that “it is the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God, and to know that we may converse with Him as one man converses with another.” ( 6:305.)Brigham Young, in his realistic manner, stated, “You know that it is one peculiarity of our faith and religion never to ask the Lord to do a thing without being willing to help him all that we are able; and then the Lord will do the rest.” ( comp. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1941, p. 43.)“Please, Lord, help me to help myself.” I am convinced that this prayer for increased personal power is one that God answers. We can learn to solve our problems with God’s help.A convert told me: “I used to pray, not often, but I did pray before we became members. I prayed that someday my husband and I would grow closer together. I never thought it would come to be, but the Church was my answer. We found the power of prayer. I am so thankful for the Church.”Yes, prayer does play an important part in our eternal progress.Let us now consider the great eternal principle of work. During his earthly ministry, the Savior gave a beautiful parable dealing with the requirement that we work.The parable of the entrusted talents told of a man who was about to leave on a long trip and he, therefore, called his servants together and gave them his goods. To one he gave five talents, to another he gave two, and to another he gave one. To each man he gave according to his ability.While the master was away, the one who received five talents put them to use and made five more talents. The man who received two talents put them to use and made two more, but the man who received one talent hid it in the ground.The master returned and asked for an accounting.To the servants who had multiplied their talents, the master said: “Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things.” The master called the servant who had hidden his talent and did not multiply it a slothful servant and said he would take the one talent from him and give it to the servant who had ten talents. [see What a marvelous philosophy—the gospel of work!At the time the present welfare program of the Church was established, the First Presidency explained that the primary purpose was to “set up … a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership.” (In Conference Report, October 1936, p. 3.)These are eternal principles and are as applicable to us today as they were when they were given.Ever since its organization, the Church has encouraged its members to be thrifty and to establish and maintain their economic independence.Whether our work is mainly mental or physical, or a combination of both, we should learn to do it well. The philosophy of work is a sound philosophy. It is a vital part of the gospel of Jesus Christ that will lead us to eternal life.The Savior constantly emphasized the doctrine of loving your neighbor, of unselfishness and sacrifice. Let me suggest, therefore, the advisability of engaging in some work that involves service to our fellowman and some sacrifice of our time, talents, and means.Remember the words of King Benjamin: “When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God.” We should also appreciate that talents are developed by use, and they will not grow and multiply unless they are used. This principle was clearly taught in the Savior’s parable.Talents may be developed in many areas, such as teaching, missionary work, the arts, compassionate service, and many other fields.Another convert had this to say: “An aspect of the Church I love is its constant learning, developing, and growing power. I’m grateful for the opportunity to work in the Church because this constant contact is helping us to grow and develop in the gospel and in all other areas of our lives.”I encourage you to accept every opportunity presented to develop your talents and to share them with enthusiasm, not as a burden, but as a great blessing, and the Lord will make you equal to the task that you are called upon to perform.The story of men and women who achieve is generally the story of persons overcoming handicaps. It appears that there are lessons that can only be learned through the overcoming of obstacles.One of the darkest periods in the history of the Church was the winter of 1838–39. The Saints had been persecuted, robbed, and murdered. The Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates had been betrayed and were imprisoned in Liberty Jail.But emerging from this dark period were the men who led the Church throughout trying experiences as well as amazing growth and development. It was during those dark days that the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, while in the Liberty Jail, a great revelation. Out of the midst of his tribulations, the Prophet Joseph Smith called upon God for comfort.The answer came as God replied, “My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment;“And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high.” The Liberty Jail experience truly constituted a refiner’s fire for those who participated in it, and it gives us a better understanding and appreciation of the greatness of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the early leaders of the Church.What can we learn from the Liberty Jail experience that will be helpful to us? Certainly two impressive truths are apparent:First, the importance of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and loyalty to our leaders and to the Church.Second, the need for enduring to the end, regardless of how many difficulties we have to surmount.As we endure to the end, we may need to ask the Lord for comfort, and we, like the Prophet Joseph Smith, may hear, “My son, peace be unto thy soul.” Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is called the Prince of Peace, and his message is a message of peace to the individual and to the world. It is the peace that makes us appreciate mortal life and enables us to bear tribulations. One of the objectives of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to establish this peace in the hearts and homes of the people.Yes, the restored gospel clearly answers the question, “What is the purpose of life?” giving us an understanding of where we came from, why we are here, and where we go after death.One can see the significance and the purpose of life with the perspective the restored gospel plan gives.A convert living in Arizona had this to say: “The thing that has changed my life the most is that I have found a purpose in life and a certain peace of mind that I have never felt before.”A convert from Seattle was asked, “What has the Church done for you?” He replied, “Everything. My life now has purpose and meaning. Now what can I do for the Lord? I owe him all.”Personally, I feel the same as the Seattle convert—I owe the Lord all.I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, our Redeemer and Savior.And I know that Joseph Smith was the instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring the gospel in its fulness, in restoring the power to act in the name of God, and in reestablishing the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth.I also bear witness that President Spencer W. Kimball is a prophet of God, acting under divine guidance in administering the affairs of the kingdom of God on the earth today. May the Lord bless and sustain him.I sincerely pray that we will understand the purpose of life, conform our life-style to eternal gospel principles, enjoy peace, happiness, and growth, and receive eternal life, the greatest gift of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.