In our world of skepticism, confusion and wickedness, to know the truth, to have a deep, humble, and solemn conviction that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, is a very precious thing. I have received the witness of the divinity of my Savior through the sweet influence and power of the Holy Ghost. I have received this witness in my own heart, which exceeds all other evidences. It bears record to me, to my very soul, of the existence of my Redeemer, Jesus Christ.This silent, sweet conviction came early in my youth, while I was on my knees in deep supplication in our humble hogan, and at other times, after reading the Book of Mormon while tending the sheep out in the hot desert on the reservation. Just as I know that my life did not begin when I was born, just as I know that it will not end when I die, likewise I know for certain that the life of Christ did not begin at Bethlehem; neither did it end on Calvary. Of himself, the Lord Jesus Christ said:“I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work … thou gavest me to do.“And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory … I had with thee before the world was.” I bear testimony that Jesus Christ was the first begotten Son of God in the Spirit. Like the Father himself, he was a personage of great power and intelligence in the universe. For ages before this world was created, he lived and ruled with his Father in Heaven in the premortal existence on a spiritual basis. The Lord Jesus had much to do with our growth and training prior to our birth on earth. Under the direction of the Father, he created this earth and accepted the appointment to come here and to be its redeemer. It was he who came forth in the Grand Council in Heaven and said: “Here am I, send me.” “Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever.” Of his beloved Son, our Heavenly Father has declared, “And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten.” There was no other good enough to pay the price of sin. He was the only one that could unlock heaven’s gate and let us in (see  no. 201), because he was and is the only one suited, eligible, worthy, able, willing, perfect, and qualified for this great supreme sacrifice.I bear testimony that our Redeemer’s birth in Bethlehem was announced by a great concourse of angels and by an angel of great authority and power who had come from the presence of God, saying, “I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.” Ancient prophets from the time of Adam down knew of his coming. He was known by name, character, and his good works long before his birth. Before his birth, he was a personage of spirit. After his birth, a body of flesh and bones was added. After he conquered death and after resurrection, he became a person with an indestructible glorified body, inseparably joined together with his immortal spirit. His whole mortal life was devoted to bringing peace and blessings to others. He lived a perfect life in the midst of evil and wickedness.His excruciating agony in the Garden of Gethsemane was not only physical and mental anguish, but also a spiritual agony that only a god was capable of experiencing. In that hour of tremendous anguish the Savior took upon himself the burden of the sins of the world from Adam down to the end of the world. Then they hanged him on the cross and crucified him in the most inhumane and cruel method of execution. A spike was driven through his hands and feet as was the method at that time. Of his suffering he said:“For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent;“But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I;“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit.” In his infinite love and mercy he prayed for the very people that crucified him. He prayed and asked Heavenly Father to bless and forgive those that ridiculed, mocked, and insulted him. In pain and anguish he cried, “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.” I bear testimony that this same crucified Christ arose on the third day from the tomb, after having met and mingled with others in the spirit world, his spirit was reunited with his body. After being among men on earth, he ascended to his Heavenly Father as a resurrected and glorified being. An angel, speaking of Jesus, said:“He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.“And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him.” For thousands of years from the time of Adam up to Christ’s crucifixion, millions of people had entered the dark grave and suffered death and the end of life. For thousands of years, no one had ever returned. When our Redeemer arose from the tomb with his resurrected and immortal body, he robbed death of its sting and the grave of its victory. (See    Man was freed from sin’s dark prison. Death was conquered; Christ won the victory. (See    He had opened heaven’s gate.Immediately following his resurrection many others were resurrected. In Matthew we read:“And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose,“And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.” Thus, our risen Lord removed the last barrier in our march toward perfection and eternal life. Just as it is said of him “He is not here: … he is risen”  so it will be for each of us, because the empty tomb of the Lord Jesus is not only a symbol but also a guarantee of our own resurrection and immortality. It would be a serious mistake and a tragedy for anyone to assume that Jesus was just a great teacher and just a great humanitarian. Because of him, life continues throughout eternity. There is no other name under heaven whereby man will be saved and exalted. (See  I bear testimony that our resurrected Lord, clothed in glory, personally manifested himself to the Nephites and the Lamanites in ancient America as they were gathered around their temple in the land Bountiful. God our Eternal Father said unto them:“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.” They saw the Lord Jesus Christ, clothed in a white robe, coming down out of heaven; and he descended until he stood in their midst. He said unto them:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and … glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world.” The multitude fell at his feet and worshiped him. They then arose and came to him at his invitation to see and feel the prints of the nails in his hands and feet. They also saw and felt the spear wound in his side, and they did fall at his feet, overwhelmed and overjoyed. Their own eyes and hands were witnesses. Words cannot describe their heartfelt joy and gratitude. It was a glorious manifestation and spiritual feast for all.I bear testimony that this, the last great dispensation of the fulness of times, was ushered in by the voice of God our Eternal Father, saying:  In the spring of 1820, God our Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ, revealed themselves to the boy-prophet Joseph Smith. The darkness of the long night of the apostasy was lifted. This glorious manifestation illuminated the world. Other divine visitations by heavenly messengers and personages were made to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Many revelations were given to him. The giver of these revelations was none other than our risen Lord, Jesus Christ. The gospel was restored with all of its former blessings, keys, rights, privileges, and holy priesthood with authority to minister in the name of God. The Church, bearing his name and founded upon the rock of revelation, was restored.The gospel principles and laws that the Lord restored in our day are not that much different from those that he revealed in the times past. Latter-day Saints are expected, as were the Saints in the past, to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. The Savior’s divine formula for success and perfection has always been the same: “Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” The Lord Jesus wants us to build the necessary character, righteousness, industry, and godliness into our lives first. Then we are to do the same for others. That is, to assist him in teaching, baptizing, and perfecting individuals and families throughout the world.Even in our own day and age we can perfect ourselves in many areas. For example, we can become perfect in abstaining from the use of coffee, tea, tobacco, and liquor. We can become perfect in the paying of our tithing. We can become perfect in our sacrament meeting attendance. We can become perfect in honesty, in morality, in charity, in punctuality, in dependability, and in many other virtues. If we can live one gospel principle perfectly today, we can live two principles perfectly tomorrow. Perfection in one thing can act as a stepping-stone to perfection in something else.I bear testimony that our risen Lord and Redeemer will return to earth a second time in his resurrected, immortal body of flesh and bones, and in celestial glory and power. When he came the first time he was misunderstood, condemned, and ridiculed and was a man acquainted with much grief. (See  When he came the first time, he atoned for the sins of the world. But when he comes the second time he will come as a triumphant King of kings and a glorious Lord of lords. (See  He will stand in judgment of sinners who have not repented. He will come as the Almighty God to cleanse the earth and to inaugurate his glorious millennial reign.  The Lord Jesus and the resurrected Saints will reign upon the earth during the thousand years of millennium. (See  Satan will be tied and will have no power to tempt any man. (See  Then after the end of the thousand years, Satan will be loosed again for a little season, and then will come the end of the earth. Satan and his forces will be banished forever and ever. Every person will be resurrected and stand before God to be judged. Our Lord, Jesus Christ, will be crowned with the crown of his glory to reign forever and ever. (See  Those that have endured until the end and have achieved eternal life will abide with him and Heavenly Father forever and ever in the celestial kingdom.I testify that he is the creator of “all things bright and beautiful, All creatures great and small” (Cecil Frances Alexander, in  ed. James Dalton Morrison, New York: Harper and Brothers Publishers, 1948, p. 17). He is the master over ocean, earth, and skies. He is the promised Messiah. He is the victor over death and the grave. He is the Prince of Peace. (See  He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. (See  Everlasting is his name. Eternal is his name. He is Jesus the Christ. I so testify, in his holy name, amen.My beloved brothers and sisters, I would like to share my personal feelings about a parable of great hope and compassion. The Savior said, “A certain man had two sons.”  The younger of the two sons seemed always to be in the shadow of his older, more mature brother. Compliments would come freely to the older brother. His age and size were in his favor; he could work harder. The younger son, always compared to his older brother, never quite measured up. He tired more quickly, did not get all the work done, and probably had a fairly poor self-image. He may, have determined that the “system” was against him. He was not being judged on his own merits. He decided to leave home and start in a new environment.The parable continues: “And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me.”  Apparently the father had previously discussed with his sons that one day each would receive an inheritance. The inheritance would be a free-will gift from the father. It is doubtful that either son actually earned much more than his room and board. Nevertheless, the father “divided unto him his living.”  This, in essence, was approval for the younger man to strike out on his own with his inheritance. The father loved him. He may have had an idea what the younger son would do with his share. The younger brother “gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country.” He may have intended to do something honorable. However, he found, after arriving in the distant city in a far country, people did not just automatically gather round and make him welcome. He was in a predicament, no influence and no friends. True friends must be earned, others can be bought. The younger son found that flies are attracted by honey. He began to flash his inheritance around. The flies came. Not only did he not invest or use his money wisely, he wasted it on riotous living. (See  There were evil and drunken men and vile and adulterous women whose lust for his companionship was gone when the money was spent.“And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land.”  Conditions were bad, for not only had he used up all his inheritance, but even the average citizen waxed sore. He had been taught to work at home and apparently attempted to find work. He may have gone to many who had been his friends when he was “flush.”The prodigal began to be in want and “went and joined himself to a [certain] citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.”  Now he was not only destitute, but also forced to take the most humble kind of work. In such great poverty was he that “he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.”  The Savior is undoubtedly showing us the contrast and the depths of poverty and need to which he had sunk. He had indulged with all who came when he had money. Now not even one of his supposed friends so much as gave him a husk of corn so that he might feed at least as well as the swine.There is a great purging and humbling that comes from the wells of despair. False pride is stripped away. The light of home flickers dimly through the dark miles of distance.In the despair of this great, humbling experience, the young man “came to himself, [and] he said, How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!“I will arise and go to my father, and [I] will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,“And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.“And he arose, and came to his father.” It is possible that he rehearsed the speech over and over again. The father had been faithful and had worked hard all his life, a frugal man with character and integrity. Would he turn his son away? The younger son arose and came unto his father—undoubtedly a long journey.Now, the older son may have noticed that since the younger brother’s leaving, the father seemed always preoccupied. His father had little interest in the work. He would work a bit, then leave the field to look down the road, each time returning with a faraway look in his eyes. Not only did the older brother have to do his own work and make up for the younger brother’s absence, but he also had an additional work load which was previously done by the father. It also seemed that his father paid him little attention. Before the younger brother’s leaving, there was always a word of praise for the way the older son worked. Now, there was little or no fun, no singing, no dancing, and precious little talk. Both the mother and father would sit at night and stare into the open fire. Days, weeks, even months passed thus.The Master states: “But when [the younger son] was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.“And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.“But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.”  The long journey probably had been made with little or no footwear, so the robe and shoes were necessities. But the father also had a ring brought for his son’s hand. This was an unexpected gift, an expression of the gratitude of the father for the son’s return.“And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry:“For this my son was dead, and is alive again … was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.“Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.“And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.“And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.“[Now the elder brother] was angry, and would not go in.” The weeks and months of doing work which his brother had previously done, compensating for his father’s inattention, receiving no compliments, and the father’s preoccupation settled in on him. Perhaps he thought he should have taken his inheritance also. He would not have wasted it, but increased it. In spite of these thoughts, he had stayed at home and been a dutiful son. There was no music, no dancing for his righteous life; and yet when his younger brother returned, all of these things celebrated his coming.Word came to the father that his son was outside and would not come in,” therefore came his father out, and intreated him.”  The father must have realized the oversight; he may even have apologized. The great concern for his younger son was off his mind. He remembered he had not been as complimentary to the older son as usual. He recalled the older son’s more intense work to compensate—no dancing, no music, no sumptuous feasts. Hearts were too heavy for those things.“And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:“But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.” The father, with full understanding, said, “Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.”  The father had planned all along to reward the older brother by giving him everything, but this was the first time this had been mentioned.The father said, “It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.” A minister recently read the parable of the prodigal son over the radio. He concluded with: “The younger brother stood justified before the Lord due to his repentance, and the older brother fell under the greater condemnation.” When I heard this, I wept and I thought, “Oh, you foolish man. You do not understand the Lord’s teachings.” The older son had been hurt and neglected and, true, had not exercised love and compassion to his wayward brother; but no thinking man could ever suppose that his transgression compared to the wasteful, extravagant, riotous living with harlots of the younger brother.I think I have an understanding of what the Lord was trying to teach in this beautiful parable which extends hope to all. The Savior is standing with open arms to receive and forgive all who will come unto him. His atoning and redemptive suffering in Gethsemane and on Golgotha’s hill are the greatest acts of love ever performed.Ella Wheeler Wilcox, in her poem entitled “Gethsemane,” said:Death, divorce, transgression, loneliness, and despair drive us to Gethsemane’s garden. The Master’s outstretched arms are open to receive all. The parable of the prodigal son is beautiful. It demonstrates charity. His love and compassion are eternally surrounding every soul who walks the earth. Every man, woman, or youth who returns home after a prodigal journey or an inactive period will find the Savior waiting with open arms. His atoning act will satisfy justice and extend mercy to all who will “come unto him.” (See All who are active have someone close who may he inactive, indifferent, or clothed in transgression’s soiled robes. They need the sweet, abiding love of a compassionate parent or loving brother or sister. Jesus will bless every member of the Church who will go out and bring someone back.President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said:“Every human being is born with the light of faith kindled in his heart as on an altar, and that light burns and the Lord sees that it burns, during the period before we are accountable. When accountability comes then each of us determines how we shall feed and care for that light. If we shall live righteously that light will glow until it suffuses the whole body, giving to it health and strength and spiritual light as well as bodily health. If we shall live unrighteously that light will dwindle and finally almost flicker out. Yet it is my hope and my belief that the Lord never permits the light of faith wholly to be extinguished in any human heart, however faint the light may glow. The Lord has provided that there shall still be there a spark which, with teaching, with the spirit of righteousness, with love, with tenderness, with example, with living the Gospel, shall brighten and glow again, however darkened the mind may have been. And if we shall fail so to reach those among us of our own whose faith has dwindled low, we shall fail in one of the main things which the Lord expects at our hands.” (In Conference Report, Oct. 1936, p. 114.)We are the keepers of the light. We invite all who are here to reach out and bless others who are not here. Listen to the voice of a prophet. President Spencer W. Kimball said: “We extend to every listener a cordial invitation to come to the watered garden, to the shade of pleasant trees, to unchangeable truth.“Come with us to sureness, security, consistency. Here the cooling waters flow. The spring does not go dry.“Come listen to a prophet’s voice and hear the word of God.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1971, p. 11.)And we invite all those who are not here to come home. We gaze steadily down the road, anxious for your return. We will run with open arms, and hearts filled with compassion. There are shoes for your feet, a robe, a ring for your hand, and a fatted calf. Come home and we will rejoice together, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.