One weekend last November, Heidi, a young Mormon mother here in Salt Lake City, left her large and gracious home on a gray morning and drove over to Pioneer State Park and entered the restored home of Mary Fielding Smith.Heidi was costumed in a dress reminiscent of one Mary might have worn, and for the entire day she welcomed young children from a nearby school into this small home, where she helped them learn to dry apples.After the children left, the sun broke through the clouds overhead, illuminating not only the afternoon sky, but casting a reflective glow on the events of the day. That evening Heidi recorded in her journal, “I was overwhelmed by the exceptional beauty I could see from that little adobe house on the hill. … I could hardly contain the light that streamed through the wavy glass window into my soul bringing feelings that were both very warm and very bright!”She told about the contrast she felt between the small home in which she stood with its meager appointments and her own lovely house on another hill not far away. She wrote, “I hope my home is my family’s place of strength, of faith, and of refuge, a place where truth is confirmed and testimony is strengthened, as Mary’s little home had been for her family so long ago.” She continued, “Despite life-styles so different, I was overcome by hearts so similar. My soul pleads to make the similarities count for my family, as they had for hers.”The circumstances of Mary Fielding Smith’s life were much different from Heidi’s.In the momentous time of the exodus of the Saints from Nauvoo, Mary Fielding Smith found herself a widow with small children. To stay in Nauvoo would put her in the position of constant conflict with the dissidents and the mobs. To go would mean leaving her home unsold and, alone, shouldering the hardships and the unknown challenges of a long and wearisome trek by ox team.To stay would mean giving up association with the Saints and the gospel she loved. This she could not and would not do. She wanted her children to grow up strong in the new and everlasting covenant.The bonds of the gospel that led Mary Fielding Smith to face immense hardships and travel west with the Saints transcend time and trial, uniting sisters now as then in a oneness of faith.From South America we received word of a woman who, when approached by missionaries to accept baptism, said, “You don’t want me. I am nothing.” But the missionaries persisted. She accepted the gospel, and it brought hope and love to her life; it brought learning and growth and progress. In time she became a Relief Society president, and through her devoted concern she could give that same hope and love to others.One of the great sisters of Japan, Toshiko, wrote:“Deep inside I had a feeling, I had a hope that there is a true church somewhere that testifies the resurrection of Jesus Christ … the Lord answered me … missionaries made me a visit and I came to know the Book of Mormon. … Here in this teaching exists the truth I have been looking for. … My heart had affinity for the gospel as desert sands have for water.”From Africa, where the first all-black Relief Society was founded in 1978, comes this word:“I have learned to look at life in a very different way. I, as a young mother, have learned how to bring up my children in a Christlike way. I have learned to make my home a pleasant place and also a place where the gospel is believed and lived.”Example after example comes from women in many places, from women of greatly differing circumstances in life—women alone, women with children, women old, women young, women new to the Church, women in sorrow, women in despair, women happy.They form a mosaic of many lives with differing circumstances, with individual talents, and with gifts wonderfully varied. The details of each life are so numerous that we begin to see in them the great diversity among us, and with it great strength and enrichment.And from varied experiences comes one great unifying truth, echoing and re-echoing: “I know God lives and loves  His teaching make me strong and sustain my soul.”This testimony gives us hearts so similar that, as Paul said:“We, being many, are one … in Christ.” Being many … with differing gifts, yet having hearts so similar; hearts testifying of the Lord Jesus Christ … that his teachings are true … his way of life—a way of truth, of love, of light.An examination of the many individual lives of those who would be his disciples testifies that nothing about the gospel is designed to “make reason stare” as Eliza R. Snow observed so many years ago. ( no. 139.) The gospel, correctly understood, embraces all that is virtuous, lovely, of good report and praiseworthy. (See  The gospel is heaven-sent. It is the light by which we find our way through darkness and difficult times. The light of truth discloses our eternal nature. If we work hard enough and long enough, and pray diligently enough, the excellence that is our divine potential is possible to each one of us.The uniqueness of each human being is a condition of God’s creation, even though the differences sometimes cause us to wonder. One beautiful Oriental sister came to the United States and for the first time in her life she encountered blonde-haired, blue-eyed persons. The blue eyes seemed so unusual to her, she later confided, that although she now thinks them lovely, she had at first wondered if people could actually see out of them.Color, culture, talents, tastes. Diversities abound and through them come much of the fulness and beauty we experience in life. To the sister from the Orient it was the color of eyes that seemed strange at first, but for all of us there are differences we can come to appreciate more fully. Learning to value variety in others, we can also see and appreciate our own uniqueness more clearly.When we can respect not only the differences in others but also their accomplishments, we begin to experience some of the joy the Lord intended. There is so much more of happiness to be had when we can rejoice in another’s successes and not just in our own.Being happy in the achievements of brothers, sisters, and associates requires a feeling of security and the recognition of our own great potential. The gospel brings this kind of confidence within the reach of each one. When we are filled with love for the Lord, with all our hearts, souls, and minds, the result is that we  feel and understand and be secure in his love. We  keep his commandments. We  love our neighbor as ourselves. This is the way he planned it to be for us, coming together in love and faith, with hearts so similar.How do we become one of heart? We become so—These are the things that make us of similar hearts as we take personal responsibility for our own lives, whatever the circumstances.These principles can be embraced by all—the poor and the rich, the single and the married, young women and grandmothers.There are no exceptions and no specifications about looks, or marital status, or opportunities, or responsibilities.There are no arbitrary limitations.The Lord really cares about the feelings of love in our hearts and souls, about diligence in seeking wisdom. He wants us to love and care and do as he did. He wants us to be righteous as he was. He wants us to develop the divine within us.We can be good women, elect women, and even holy women. Though we are women of great diversity, we can be women of God bound together in a great sisterhood of faith and testimony. And like Heidi, we can pray for strength and faith and the ability to make our homes places of refuge where the light of heaven—like the golden sunlight of that gray November day—will stream into our lives no matter where we are. That we, being many, will be one in Christ, having hearts so similar, is my humble prayer in the holy name of Jesus Christ, our Exemplar and Redeemer, amen.Part of our precious legacy—to be remembered and renewed—is that though deepening trials throng our way, we know that our afflictions can be consecrated to our good.Good can come from trouble. Trauma can enliven the heart and enrich the soul. Clouds do have silver linings, and the leaf will burst again on the dry branch. “Weeping may endure for [the] night,” sang the psalmist, “but joy cometh in the morning.” My dear sisters, the daily work of the Lord involves changing hopeless to hopeful—for all of us. And it is for us to find at last that in the midst of winter we have within us an invincible summer. In a world filled with adversity we can reach for joy.My heart responds to you—to you who are young women, so beautiful and so refreshing; to you wise and wonderful ones who have lived a little longer and suffered some; to you with many dreams and to you whose dreams have been dashed; and to some of you who have given way for a time to the temptings that are unleashed upon all of us in these latter days; and to you stricken ill; and to all whose faith has faltered and whose tears have washed the cheeks of your baby or dampened the pillow at night. To all of you, I express my love and my compassion, and I give you my blessed witness that our Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ live and sustain us and that the Comforter witnesses within us—even now—that our personal joy can be full.But first the testing—the bitter so that we can appreciate the sweet. First the trial—and then the witness of our faith. (See It is our understanding that in the world before this one we all heard the plan of life presented by the gods. We had our agency—and each of us voted to come down to earth to be proven herewith. To me that means something like: “I will go down and I will take up my life no matter what comes. I will go down and suffer a learning disability or watch the man I love marry someone else; or I will endure a frustrating relationship; or I’ll take up my life as the only Latter-day Saint in my high school or the only Latter-day Saint in my family; or I’ll live my life working hard all my years without apparent success. But I will go down to earth to be proven and to learn.” (See Trials come in different ways at different stages of life. You’ve no doubt heard about the young girl who complained to her teenage brother about the terrible blows that life had dealt her. And she said, “It just isn’t fair; you got the curly hair and the straight nose.”And he said, “Well, you got the curly nose and the straight hair!” Brothers are so wonderful.But whatever life offers, it is to be lived, it is to be learned from. We need to get on with it—and reach for joy.One certainty of life is that each of us will meet some mighty test. This is part of the plan. Another thing that we can count on is that neither here nor hereafter are we suddenly going to emerge with qualities we haven’t developed or a pattern of living for which we have not prepared ourselves. Adversity is an important part of the preparation for at least three reasons. One, God knows whom he can trust and who, like Job, will stand firm and love him unconditionally. Second, adversity well handled can increase our understanding and compassion. And we will be more effective in helping others when we’ve had a few challenges of our own. We just may need to be an answer to somebody else’s prayer.And third, we draw closer to our Heavenly Father when we are in deep need. Our prayers of thanksgiving and joy of course should be part, and are a part, of our worship, but I guess there isn’t anybody here who won’t admit that we pray more fervently when we’re under the press of problems. Attitude in adversity turns hopeless to hopeful.It is a matter of the lemon and the lemonade, after all. In adversity we can complain bitterly, “Why me? Why now?” and wallow in self-pity, thus denouncing God. Or we can find our way by asking that all-important question: “Which of my Heavenly Father’s principles will help me now?” And when we find that appropriate principle, the next step is to live that law, “irrevocably decreed” upon which the particular blessing that we need is predicated. (See God’s plan is a plan of ultimate joy for each of us. His principles suffice in any situation. But each one of us, young and old, must rise to her challenges in her own way. Each one of us must reach for her own joy.Let me tell you about some sisters.For thirty years and more, Sister Louise Lake, who has now passed away, lived alone trapped in a wheelchair. A parade of problems plagued her constantly. But she made it, beautifully prepared to meet our Heavenly Father. And this is how she did it. Each morning over the years she practiced an “exercise in joy”—a kind of fervent blessing-counting session upon awakening. Imagine! An exercise in joy under those circumstances. She didn’t curse God and die. (See  She gave thanks and lived—anyway—touching many of us in remarkable ways because of what she had learned about trouble.Sister LaRue Longden, a former counselor in the General Presidency of the Young Women, was a ward Young Women’s president at the time of the serious illness of her little daughter. She and Brother Longden were kneeling in fervent prayer by the side of their bed when word came that the little girl had passed away. They were heartbroken. But after the funeral all the leaders and the young women held flowers and formed an aisle while she, their president, had to walk past them. And during this time of intense emotion she suddenly realized that they were watching her. “I  to live what I’d been teaching,” Sister Longden said. “I  to be an example of what I really believed.” So she lifted her chin and smiled her famous smile upon them.A fourteen-year-old girl I know has survived a serious bout with cancer. She knows now that she’ll never be able to bear children. She told me that the theme for the Young Women, which is “The Lord is the strength of my life”  has helped her meet her test, and she is determined to become the very best teacher of children that Heavenly Father ever had. Find the principle, sisters. Live it! Reach for joy.A special friend of mine was left with the burden of being a single parent, not by her choice. One day she was particularly desperate for help. She was very much in need of comfort and direction. And yet she felt so alone: her parents were away on a mission, the bishop was busy, her home teacher was out of town. And finally, tear weary, she turned to the scriptures and read the beloved words “Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you.”  Here she found her answer. She prayed and she was helped. It was wonderful. It worked!Today we women of all ages can draw upon the powers of heaven. We can seek strength through the priesthood, find solace and direction in our patriarchal blessing, be guided by studying the scriptures.Life may not always be exactly what we had in mind, but we are not alone. This special promise is recorded in Mosiah: “Lift up your heads and be of good comfort. … And I will … ease the burdens … upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even while you are in bondage; and this will I do that ye may stand as witnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may know of a surety that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.” Isn’t that beautiful?I know that our Heavenly Father keeps his promises. I, like you, have been sorely tried in a variety of ways. But this kind of seasoning teaches us that every burden on the back can become a gift in the hand.This I firmly believe, and I earnestly pray that in time of trial we may stand firm, sisters, in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that we may stand as witnesses of Christ and of peace in the plan of life. And thus reach our joy.We love you. We pray for you. We find comfort in your example. And I pray this day that we may help each other make it through our times of trial—and while we reach for our joy—in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.