Tuesday, June 8, 1982, dawned bright and clear in London, England. It was destined to be an historic day. A spirit of excitement permeated the very air and filled expectant hearts with keen anticipation. The President of the United States of America had arrived in Great Britain and soon would be addressing Parliament. Crowds gathered for the occasion, filled the streets and overflowed the nearby park. Uniformed policemen maintained order while famous Big Ben chimed its proud and clarion call which marked the appointed hour.My wife, Frances, and I stood midst the milling crowd. Then, suddenly, Parliament’s doors swung open, the Prime Minister and the President greeted the throng, entered their limousines, and the motorcade drove slowly away. The crowd gave a mighty cheer, then began to disperse. Frances and I walked from the sunbathed street into the semi-dark, yet welcome, refuge of Westminster Abbey.A reverence filled this world-famous edifice, as it should. For here, kings are crowned, royalty wedded, and rulers, whose mission of mortality has ended, are honored then buried. We walked along the aisleways, thoughtfully reading the inscriptions which marked the tombs of the famous. We remembered their achievements, recalled their deeds of valor, and marked their well-earned places in the world’s history. Then we paused before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, one of many who fell in France during the Great War. From an unmarked grave, the body of this fallen youth had been brought to London to forever lie in honor. I read aloud the inscriptions: “They buried him among the kings because he had done good toward God and toward His house.” “In Christ shall all be made alive.”Toward the doorway we walked. Still visible in the park beyond were the remnants of the crowd. The immortal words of Rudyard Kipling coursed through my mind and spoke to my soul:One final marker to see, one more inscription to read. As a Scouter, I had come from America to view the plaque of honor dedicated to the memory of Scouting’s founder, Lord Baden-Powell. We stood before the magnificent marble memorial and noted the words:Robert Baden-Powell, 1857–1941 Founder of the Boy Scouts Friend of all the WorldOn that day during this year which commemorates the 75th anniversary of Scouting and the 125th anniversary of its founder, I pondered the thought, “How many boys have had their lives blessed—even saved—by the Scout movement begun by Baden-Powell?” Unlike others memorialized within the walls of Westminster Abbey, Baden-Powell had neither sailed the stormy seas of glory, conquered in conflict the armies of men, nor founded empires of worldly wealth. Rather, he was a builder of boys, one who taught them well how to run and win the race of life.Boys do become men.The reality of this thought is delightfully portrayed in the closing lines of the well-known musical  King Arthur’s Round Table has been destroyed by the jealousies of men, the infidelity of a queen, and the appearance in the present of a mistake from the past, even Mordred. Deprived of his dream, King Arthur and his forces prepare to meet the armies of Lancelot. All he held dear is gone; disillusionment has darkened into despair.Suddenly, however, there appears a stowaway—the young boy Tom of Warwick. Filled with the hope of youth, he tells the king he has come to help him fight the mighty battle. He reveals his intention to become a knight. Under the questioning of Arthur, Tom declares his knowledge of the Round Table. He repeats the familiar goals: “Might for right! Right for right! Justice for all!”A look of renewed confidence spreads across King Arthur’s face. All is not lost. To the boy he repeats the goals and glory of Camelot. Then he formally knights him “Sir Tom of Warwick.” Thus commissioned to depart the battlefield, to return to England, to renew the dream of Camelot, to grow up and to grow old, Sir Tom places aside the weapons of war; and armed with the tenets of truth, he hears his monarch command, “Run, boy, run!” A boy had been spared, an idea safeguarded, a hope renewed. (Alan J. Lerner,  New York: Random House, 1961, p. 115.)Every boy blessed by Scouting learns in his youth far more than that envisioned by Sir Tom of Warwick. He adopts the motto “Be Prepared.” He subscribes to the code “Do a Good Turn Daily.” Scouting provides proficiency badges to encourage skills and personal endeavor. Scouting teaches boys how to live, not merely how to make a living. How pleased I am that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1913 became the first partner to sponsor Scouting in the United States.I love the inspired words of President Spencer W. Kimball when he spoke to Church members everywhere: “The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints affirms the continued support of Scouting and will seek to provide leadership which will help boys keep close to their families and close to the Church as they develop the qualities of citizenship and character and fitness which Scouting represents. We’ve remained strong and firm in our support of this great movement for boys and of the Oath and the Law which are at its center.” (In Conference Report, April 1977, pp. 50–51.)What is the Scout Oath of which President Kimball spoke?“On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God and my country and to obey the Scout Law; to help other people at all times and to keep myself physically strong, mentally awake and morally straight.” ( North Brunswick, New Jersey: Boy Scouts of America, 1972, p. 34.)A hero from war’s battlefield, General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, emphasized this same commitment when, in the twilight of his illustrious career, when the daylight of youth had departed and the shadows of age had descended, he declared in a message to young men: “In my dreams I hear again the crash of guns, the rattle of musketry, the strange, mournful mutter of the battlefield. But in the evening of my memory, I always come back to West Point. Always there echoes and re-echoes in my ears—Duty, Honor, Country.” (Address accepting Sylvanus Thayer Award, West Point, 12 May 1962.)The Protestant minister Harry Emerson Fosdick phrased differently the same commitment: “Men will work hard for money. They will work harder for other men. But men will work hardest of all when they are dedicated to a cause. Until willingness overflows obligation, men fight as conscripts, rather than following the flag as patriots. Duty is never worthily performed until it is performed by one who would gladly do more, if only he could.” ( comp. Emerson Roy West, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1968, p. 38.)And from the Confederate general, Robert E. Lee: “Duty is the sublimest word in the English language. Do your duty in all things. You cannot do more. You should never wish to do less.” (Inscription beneath his bust in the Hall of Fame.)Let us consider the Scout Law referred to by President Kimball. When I think of the Scout Law, I reflect upon the life of one who knew the laws of God and who kept them—even the Lord, Jesus Christ. The twelve points of the Scout Law have their counterpart in the message of the Master.Such inspired teachings, when taught by devoted leaders to precious boys of promise, influence not only the lives of the boys; they also affect eternity. “Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days.”  Such is Scouting.Several years ago a group of men, leaders of Scouts, assembled in the mountains near Sacramento for Wood Badge training. This experience, where men camp out and live as do the Scouts they teach, is a most interesting one. They cook and then eat—burned eggs! They hike the rugged trails which age invariably makes more steep. They sleep on rocky ground. They gaze again at heaven’s galaxies.This group provided its own reward. After days of being deprived, they feasted on a delicious meal prepared by a professional chef who joined them at the end of their endurance trail. Tired, hungry, a bit bruised after their renewal experience, one asked the chef why he was always smiling and why each year he returned at his own expense to cook the traditional meal for Scouting’s leaders in that area. He placed aside the skillet, wiped his hands on the white apron which graced his rotund figure, and told the men this experience. Dimitrious began:“I was born and grew to boyhood in a small village in Greece. My life was a happy one until World War II. Then came the invasion and occupation of my country by the Nazis. The freedom-loving men of the village resented the invaders and engaged in acts of sabotage to show their resentment.“One night, after the men had destroyed a hydroelectric dam, the villagers celebrated the achievement and then retired to their homes.”Dimitrious continued: “Very early in the morning, as I lay upon my bed, I was awakened by the noise of many trucks entering the village. I heard the sound of soldiers’ boots, the rap at the door, and the command for every boy and man to assemble at once on the village square. I had time only to slip into my trousers, buckle my belt, and join the others. There, under the glaring lights of a dozen trucks, and before the muzzles of a hundred guns, we stood. The Nazis vented their wrath, told of the destruction of the dam, and announced a drastic penalty: every fifth man or boy was to be summarily shot. A sergeant made the fateful count, and the first group was designated and executed.”Dimitrious spoke more deliberately to the Scouters as he said: “Then came the row in which I was standing. To my horror, I could see that I would be the final person designated for execution. The soldier stood before me, the angry headlights dimming my vision. He gazed intently at the buckle of my belt. It carried on it the Scout insignia. I had earned the belt buckle as a Boy Scout for knowing the Oath and the Law of Scouting. The tall soldier pointed at the belt buckle, then raised his right hand in the Scout sign. I shall never forget the words he spoke to me: ‘Run, boy, run!’ I ran. I lived. Today I serve Scouting, that boys may still dream dreams and live to fulfill them.” (As told by Peter W. Hummel.)Dimitrious reached into his pocket and produced that same belt buckle. The emblem of Scouting still shone brightly. Not a word was spoken. Every man wept. A commitment to Scouting was renewed.It has been said, “The greatest gift a man can give a boy is his willingness to share a part of his life with him.” To leaders who build bridges to the hearts of boys, to parents of Scouts, and to Scouts everywhere, on this our 75th anniversary, I salute you and pray our Heavenly Father’s blessings upon you. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.We are thankful for this, another opportunity to bear testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and of His divine Sonship, for truly He is the well-beloved and Only Begotten Son of our Heavenly Father.Again we testify that He is our Savior and our Redeemer. He is our Creator, the Maker of heaven and earth.But He also is our Friend—our dearest Friend. He died for us. Is not that the ultimate measure of friendship?And He provided for us a resurrection from death, which is given freely to every person who has lived on the earth or ever will.What a gift! What a Friend! What a mighty Personage He is!But marvelous as will be our resurrection, joyfully as we will welcome our victory over death, salvation in His kingdom is quite another matter. It comes only to those who faithfully obey His commandments and accept all of His ordinances.Have you ever thought of the process by which the gospel saves people? Faith, repentance, and baptism come first, of course. But there is more, much more.The meaning of complete salvation is that we become like the Savior in word and thought and deed. We can measure our progress toward salvation merely by determining how Christlike we are. If we are not becoming more like Him in our everyday living, we are not advancing toward salvation as we should.Becoming Christlike is a matter of daily spiritual growth. As a flower develops from a seed, as a mature adult develops from a tiny child, so we can grow spiritually day by day, eventually into Christlike personalities.As one of our poets described it:Jesus the Savior is the supreme example of how we should build our souls.“What manner of men ought ye to be?” He asked, and then replied, “Even as I am.” Becoming like Him is not something we can achieve overnight. It is a lifelong and an eternal process, nothing less. In every hour and every day we must strive to become like Him.Then what is the process by which this is done? It is by developing within our own selves the very traits of character which make Him what He is.This does not come by studying the gospel alone, nor is it only by being baptized or receiving the priesthood, nor even by becoming temple workers. All of these are necessary, of course, but none alone is enough.In it all, and above all, we need to develop Christlike hearts. We must have a change deep within us. As the prophet Alma taught:“All mankind, yea, men and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters;“And thus,” Alma said, “they become new creatures; and unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.” Note this last sentence: “Unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.” This is a direct warning to us all.Unless we have this change of heart, unless we follow the Savior’s teachings, our sins may cancel out all the benefits we otherwise might receive through the ordinances of the Church.The scriptures are very clear in telling us how to live a Christlike life. That is why we are to read them so constantly.For example, we are taught to be  that is, humble. We are taught to be  (See  It is not Christlike to be egotistical or proud or arrogant.We are told to love Him so much that we will  (See  Can we understand what that means? He is completely righteous. We wish to become like Him. But is our desire so deep that we actually hunger and thirst for it?As a matter of fact, how great is our desire to walk in His paths? That alone can measure the depth of our conversion. Desire! That word  How deep is it within our souls—for righteousness?To be Christlike also is to be kind. Was He ever unkind? If we lack in kindness and mercy, can we say that we resemble Him?Another great law we must understand if we are to become like Him is the Golden Rule. We must learn to do unto others as we would be done by.How many of us truly live that commandment? And yet, is there any salvation without it? Read the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew for an answer.Just what does it mean to do unto others as we would be done by?Would we like other people to be cruel to us? Of course not. Would we like them to cheat us? Would we appreciate being lied to or robbed? Then will we deceive others or steal from anyone? Dishonesty in all its forms is despicable and degrading. Is it Christlike in any sense? We hardly dare mention it in the same breath, for it really is anti-Christ!The Lord teaches us to be  and to avoid offenses, unpleasantness, and disputations. (See  Should we not make a conscientious effort to get along well with other people, and more especially with members of our own families?No man should quarrel with his wife or give her any cause to quarrel in return. The scriptures command us also to  (See  If irritations arise in the home, they should be removed in a genuine Christian spirit.To be like the Savior we can hardly be without true charity, either. How did the Apostle Paul express it?“Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. …“And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge. …“And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and  and have not charity [and have not the love of Christ toward my family and other people], it profiteth me nothing.”  italics added.)In fact, he says we would be  nothing, except of course that we would resemble sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. (See The Savior said, “Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.” Will any others see Him—or come into His presence? Can anything that is impure?What did He say about impurity?“Touch not that which is unclean; … be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.”  That is what He said, and that is what He meant.It is a divine commandment. If you believe in Christ, touch not the unclean thing!Lust and covetousness are completely destructive. Sex sin is deadly. Intoxication is vicious. Greed is of the devil. So is selfishness, as it leads to all forms of dishonesty. They contaminate and demoralize our very souls. They are completely opposite to the Christlike life.But what did He say about purity?He prayed that those who follow Him will be so purified by righteous living that they will be pure as He is pure, so that, as He said, “I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them.”  Think of it! If we are pure, our righteousness will add glory to His name!And He taught something else. If we have offended others, we are to seek a reconciliation with them and not allow ill feelings to persist.Have you ever thought of these words as a commandment?“If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;“Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.” With this in mind can we assume that our worship is acceptable to God if we have ill feelings toward others or if we have dealt unfairly with anyone?Sometimes I have wondered if leaving our gift at the altar while seeking this reconciliation could refer to the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper. Can we partake of those holy emblems with a clear conscience if we have done an injustice to another person?The Lord also taught:“If ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Can we presume that we shall enter His sacred presence if we are still stained by unremitted sins?And then He warned against hypocrisy. Christlike people are not two-faced or double-dealing. The divine word is: “Ye cannot serve God and mammon.” Can we see how our day-by-day acts—little though they may seem to be—mold our souls?Do His simple laws seem overly strict? Are they too difficult for us to live? But if we ignore them, do we realize what we do to ourselves?It is inspiring to read the Lord’s own description of the traits which make up His own character. He lists them this way:“Faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God. …“… virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence.” These are the traits of character of the Lord Jesus Christ. How earnestly do we try to build them into our own souls?He commands us to become perfect, even as His Father in Heaven is perfect. (See Can perfection arise out of careless living? Can we achieve perfection by imperfect means? It is plain to see why the Lord is strict and why we must serve Him with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. (See It is no easy matter to live the gospel as we should. But unless we do, we cannot receive the blessings. It is no easy matter to become perfect in anything. Perfection requires devotion, long-suffering, persistence, willingness to sacrifice, and constant concentration. Imperfection can produce only further imperfection.Could you sisters bake a good cake if you did not follow the recipe? Could you brethren build a house or a highway, or make a clock, or send a man to the moon if you ignored the formula provided for such achievements? Could you become a doctor if you did not follow the prescribed course in a medical school? Could you become an engineer if you ignored the principles of engineering?Then can we expect to achieve perfection like that of Almighty God if we fail to follow the course He lays out for us?The gospel will do us little good if we do not live it.Membership in the Church will not save us unless we keep the commandments.A half-hearted effort will not save us either. Instead, it will bring condemnation. The Lord has so declared in section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants. (See One of the great prophets of ancient times was Samuel the Lamanite. I like the way he taught. He was plain and straightforward in his manner of speech. He did not mince words, nor did he leave the people wondering what he meant.As he spoke from the walls of Zarahemla, calling the Nephites to repentance, he told them bluntly that if they refused to live the gospel condemnation would come upon them, and he made it clear that they would have no one to blame but themselves.“Remember, remember,” he said, “that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself.” Then he said that, since we have free agency, we can choose the good or the evil, life or death; but he declared that in the end we shall most certainly receive exactly what we ourselves have chosen.Should we not determine how well we are really living the gospel? And should we not remind ourselves that now—in our mortal lives—is the time of our probation, and that now is the time of planting for whatever kind of harvest we hope to receive?Isn’t it time for each of us to learn the lesson of Gethsemane and say with Him: “Not my will, but thine, be done”? In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.