We are thankful for this, another opportunity to bear testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and of His divine Sonship, for truly He is the well-beloved and Only Begotten Son of our Heavenly Father.Again we testify that He is our Savior and our Redeemer. He is our Creator, the Maker of heaven and earth.But He also is our Friend—our dearest Friend. He died for us. Is not that the ultimate measure of friendship?And He provided for us a resurrection from death, which is given freely to every person who has lived on the earth or ever will.What a gift! What a Friend! What a mighty Personage He is!But marvelous as will be our resurrection, joyfully as we will welcome our victory over death, salvation in His kingdom is quite another matter. It comes only to those who faithfully obey His commandments and accept all of His ordinances.Have you ever thought of the process by which the gospel saves people? Faith, repentance, and baptism come first, of course. But there is more, much more.The meaning of complete salvation is that we become like the Savior in word and thought and deed. We can measure our progress toward salvation merely by determining how Christlike we are. If we are not becoming more like Him in our everyday living, we are not advancing toward salvation as we should.Becoming Christlike is a matter of daily spiritual growth. As a flower develops from a seed, as a mature adult develops from a tiny child, so we can grow spiritually day by day, eventually into Christlike personalities.As one of our poets described it:Jesus the Savior is the supreme example of how we should build our souls.“What manner of men ought ye to be?” He asked, and then replied, “Even as I am.” Becoming like Him is not something we can achieve overnight. It is a lifelong and an eternal process, nothing less. In every hour and every day we must strive to become like Him.Then what is the process by which this is done? It is by developing within our own selves the very traits of character which make Him what He is.This does not come by studying the gospel alone, nor is it only by being baptized or receiving the priesthood, nor even by becoming temple workers. All of these are necessary, of course, but none alone is enough.In it all, and above all, we need to develop Christlike hearts. We must have a change deep within us. As the prophet Alma taught:“All mankind, yea, men and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters;“And thus,” Alma said, “they become new creatures; and unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.” Note this last sentence: “Unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.” This is a direct warning to us all.Unless we have this change of heart, unless we follow the Savior’s teachings, our sins may cancel out all the benefits we otherwise might receive through the ordinances of the Church.The scriptures are very clear in telling us how to live a Christlike life. That is why we are to read them so constantly.For example, we are taught to be  that is, humble. We are taught to be  (See  It is not Christlike to be egotistical or proud or arrogant.We are told to love Him so much that we will  (See  Can we understand what that means? He is completely righteous. We wish to become like Him. But is our desire so deep that we actually hunger and thirst for it?As a matter of fact, how great is our desire to walk in His paths? That alone can measure the depth of our conversion. Desire! That word  How deep is it within our souls—for righteousness?To be Christlike also is to be kind. Was He ever unkind? If we lack in kindness and mercy, can we say that we resemble Him?Another great law we must understand if we are to become like Him is the Golden Rule. We must learn to do unto others as we would be done by.How many of us truly live that commandment? And yet, is there any salvation without it? Read the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew for an answer.Just what does it mean to do unto others as we would be done by?Would we like other people to be cruel to us? Of course not. Would we like them to cheat us? Would we appreciate being lied to or robbed? Then will we deceive others or steal from anyone? Dishonesty in all its forms is despicable and degrading. Is it Christlike in any sense? We hardly dare mention it in the same breath, for it really is anti-Christ!The Lord teaches us to be  and to avoid offenses, unpleasantness, and disputations. (See  Should we not make a conscientious effort to get along well with other people, and more especially with members of our own families?No man should quarrel with his wife or give her any cause to quarrel in return. The scriptures command us also to  (See  If irritations arise in the home, they should be removed in a genuine Christian spirit.To be like the Savior we can hardly be without true charity, either. How did the Apostle Paul express it?“Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels. …“And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge. …“And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and  and have not charity [and have not the love of Christ toward my family and other people], it profiteth me nothing.”  italics added.)In fact, he says we would be  nothing, except of course that we would resemble sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. (See The Savior said, “Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.” Will any others see Him—or come into His presence? Can anything that is impure?What did He say about impurity?“Touch not that which is unclean; … be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.”  That is what He said, and that is what He meant.It is a divine commandment. If you believe in Christ, touch not the unclean thing!Lust and covetousness are completely destructive. Sex sin is deadly. Intoxication is vicious. Greed is of the devil. So is selfishness, as it leads to all forms of dishonesty. They contaminate and demoralize our very souls. They are completely opposite to the Christlike life.But what did He say about purity?He prayed that those who follow Him will be so purified by righteous living that they will be pure as He is pure, so that, as He said, “I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them.”  Think of it! If we are pure, our righteousness will add glory to His name!And He taught something else. If we have offended others, we are to seek a reconciliation with them and not allow ill feelings to persist.Have you ever thought of these words as a commandment?“If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;“Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.” With this in mind can we assume that our worship is acceptable to God if we have ill feelings toward others or if we have dealt unfairly with anyone?Sometimes I have wondered if leaving our gift at the altar while seeking this reconciliation could refer to the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper. Can we partake of those holy emblems with a clear conscience if we have done an injustice to another person?The Lord also taught:“If ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” Can we presume that we shall enter His sacred presence if we are still stained by unremitted sins?And then He warned against hypocrisy. Christlike people are not two-faced or double-dealing. The divine word is: “Ye cannot serve God and mammon.” Can we see how our day-by-day acts—little though they may seem to be—mold our souls?Do His simple laws seem overly strict? Are they too difficult for us to live? But if we ignore them, do we realize what we do to ourselves?It is inspiring to read the Lord’s own description of the traits which make up His own character. He lists them this way:“Faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God. …“… virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence.” These are the traits of character of the Lord Jesus Christ. How earnestly do we try to build them into our own souls?He commands us to become perfect, even as His Father in Heaven is perfect. (See Can perfection arise out of careless living? Can we achieve perfection by imperfect means? It is plain to see why the Lord is strict and why we must serve Him with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. (See It is no easy matter to live the gospel as we should. But unless we do, we cannot receive the blessings. It is no easy matter to become perfect in anything. Perfection requires devotion, long-suffering, persistence, willingness to sacrifice, and constant concentration. Imperfection can produce only further imperfection.Could you sisters bake a good cake if you did not follow the recipe? Could you brethren build a house or a highway, or make a clock, or send a man to the moon if you ignored the formula provided for such achievements? Could you become a doctor if you did not follow the prescribed course in a medical school? Could you become an engineer if you ignored the principles of engineering?Then can we expect to achieve perfection like that of Almighty God if we fail to follow the course He lays out for us?The gospel will do us little good if we do not live it.Membership in the Church will not save us unless we keep the commandments.A half-hearted effort will not save us either. Instead, it will bring condemnation. The Lord has so declared in section 58 of the Doctrine and Covenants. (See One of the great prophets of ancient times was Samuel the Lamanite. I like the way he taught. He was plain and straightforward in his manner of speech. He did not mince words, nor did he leave the people wondering what he meant.As he spoke from the walls of Zarahemla, calling the Nephites to repentance, he told them bluntly that if they refused to live the gospel condemnation would come upon them, and he made it clear that they would have no one to blame but themselves.“Remember, remember,” he said, “that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself.” Then he said that, since we have free agency, we can choose the good or the evil, life or death; but he declared that in the end we shall most certainly receive exactly what we ourselves have chosen.Should we not determine how well we are really living the gospel? And should we not remind ourselves that now—in our mortal lives—is the time of our probation, and that now is the time of planting for whatever kind of harvest we hope to receive?Isn’t it time for each of us to learn the lesson of Gethsemane and say with Him: “Not my will, but thine, be done”? In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.One of the most beautiful and inspiring passages in the Book of Mormon is often referred to as “The Psalm of Nephi.” It begins with these stirring words: “My soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children.“Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord.” These words have special meaning to me. I grew up in a small Mormon community. I was raised in a fine Latter-day Saint home. I was taught to love the Lord, to reverence His name, and to communicate with Him in prayer. I was very young when I learned that the Father and the Son had appeared to Joseph Smith. I believed as a boy and I have never doubted as a man.However, until I enlisted in the navy, I had not experienced the shock of meeting so many people who had never seen a Mormon or who had never heard of Mormonism. I soon realized how limited was my knowledge of the gospel. I was asked some pretty tough questions about the Church that I had difficulty answering. I was the only Mormon in our outfit and so there was no one with whom I could counsel. The only scripture I had was a small military copy of the Book of Mormon. I am ashamed to confess that I left Lehi and his family somewhere in the wilderness on a number of occasions.While I had grown up as an active member of the Church, I had felt no special need or urgency to study the scriptures and the writings of the prophets. When asked a question or when strong ridicule was directed at me and the Church, I could only state the personal beliefs I had learned from my family and teachers. I tried to compensate for my knowledge deficiency by being a good example of the principles I professed.After leaving the navy, I received a mission call. I still had not developed a real appetite for gospel knowledge. I had not equated understanding the holy scriptures with being a good Latter-day Saint. Following some brief training in the old mission home in Salt Lake, my companions and I were exposed to a few weeks of tracting in Texas while waiting for the ship that would take us to South Africa. That exposure expanded my vision of what I was going to be doing for the next two years. I gained a lot of humility in a hurry.An unusual quirk of fate changed my whole life as we sailed toward Cape Town. It was to be a twenty-eight-day voyage, but our ship developed boiler problems crossing the equator. Limping into the port of Recife, Brazil, we hit the rocks, gashing the ship’s hull. A tugboat rescued us; but before we finally arrived in Cape Town, we had spent eighty-four days on board ship. I was fortunate enough to share quarters with a fine companion, Roy Stevens, who was a dedicated student of the gospel. His father had also been a missionary and had sent a large box of Church books with his son. It was during this confinement that a whole new world of gospel knowledge opened up to me.It was a time to study, to ponder, to pray. I read all the standard works from cover to cover, as well as  and several other Church books. On this voyage I received my witness from the Lord that the Book of Mormon is the word of God. It was here that I came to know that Jesus is the Christ. It was here I developed an insatiable appetite to know the eternal truths. What a pity I had waited so long. I had wasted so much time during military service. What a priceless treasure I had ignored! I am persuaded that we will be held accountable for how we use our discretionary time.There is so much we can learn from the example of the young Prophet Joseph Smith, whose persistent, prayerful study of the Holy Bible compelled him to seek the God of Heaven for divine guidance. This brought him to the threshold of the greatest revelation ever given to man since the mortal ministry of the Savior Himself. Throughout the Prophet’s life, he continued to probe and ponder until he gained a mastery of the scriptures.Another young man, Spencer W. Kimball, was about fourteen when Susa Gates spoke at their stake conference. He recalls: “She gave a rousing talk on the reading of the scriptures; … then she stopped … to ask … us, ‘How many of you have read the Bible through?’“… My accusing heart said to me, ‘You, Spencer Kimball, you have never read that holy book. Why?’ I looked around me … to see if I was alone in my failure to read the sacred book. Of the thousand people, there were perhaps a half dozen who proudly raised their hands. … When the meeting closed, I … rushed home … gritting my teeth and saying to myself, ‘I will. I will.’”He went home, got a coal-oil lamp, and climbed the stairs to his attic room. “There,” he said, “I opened my Bible and began [with] Genesis … and I read well into the night with Adam and Eve … and through the flood even to Abraham.” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1981, pp. 92–93.)He continued to read a little each night. Although he didn’t always understand what he was reading, he had made a commitment to himself. At the end of a year, he had finished. This achievement set a pattern for his life. The sermons and the writings of President Kimball convince us that he has labored long hours to gain his profound insights into the holy scriptures.I am convinced that families, even young children, can learn to love the scriptures. A few years ago when I was in Colorado Springs for a conference, I called on Mark McConkie, son of Elder and Sister Bruce R. McConkie, to address the question: “How did you develop a love for the scriptures?”As I recall, he said: “I first developed a love for the scriptures from my mother. I remember she would teach me while she did her ironing. I felt how she loved the scriptures by the way she would speak about the prophets. How much she loved them! As I grew older, I would listen to the recordings of the scriptures. I wanted to know the scriptures like my father. Sometimes he would enter the room while I was listening and it would take him just a moment to identify the exact scripture I was listening to. I wanted to be able to do that.”You may remember the sweet experience shared by President Romney, who had been reading the Book of Mormon with his son. He related: “I remember reading it with one of my lads when he was very young. … We were each reading aloud alternate paragraphs of those last three marvelous chapters of Second Nephi. I heard his voice breaking and thought he had a cold, but we went on to the end of the three chapters. As we finished he said to me, ‘Daddy, do you ever cry when you read the Book of Mormon?’“‘Yes, son,’ I answered. ‘Sometimes the spirit of the Lord so witnesses to my soul that the Book of Mormon is true that I do cry.’“‘Well,’ he said, ‘that is what happened to me tonight.’” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1949, p. 41.)Some time later, I was reading a Jack London book with our youngest son Brandon, before going to bed. I recalled President Romney’s story and thought, What an experience we’re missing by not reading the standard works together. Before he leaves on his mission, I want him to become intimately acquainted with the great heroes of sacred literature and to pattern his life after them. We began to read just fifteen minutes or one chapter each day. What a choice experience! I commend it to you.All of our sacred records have come to us at high cost. When we consider the fiery furnace of conquest and persecution through which the Bible has passed, the great wonder is not whether it is complete or translated correctly, but a miracle that it has survived at all! Surely the Lord has preserved it for the salvation of his children.Laban’s life was taken by divine command that the Nephite nation not “dwindle … in unbelief.” (See  Think of the travail of the Nephite prophets who kept the records of their people so future generations might profit from their experiences. Think of the millions of people who have lived at a time when there was no printing or translating capability or who, because of political oppression or illiteracy, have been denied access to the scriptures. Think about the blessings of living in this dispensation, when the holy scriptures are available to us. In 1981, the United Bible Societies distributed 444,000,000 complete copies or portions of the Bible throughout the world. By the end of 1982, the Book of Mormon or selected portions will be available in fifty-seven languages.We are the beneficiaries of great sacrifice. What excuse do we have for not taking advantage of this? Brothers and sisters, you don’t have to be a natural student to read the scriptures; you just need to love the Lord.The value of sacred records was indelibly taught by the Savior as he ministered among the Nephites. He declared: “A commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; …“Give heed to my words; write the things which I have told you; …“Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of these things.“And now … after [Jesus] had expounded all the scriptures unto them which they had received, he said unto them: Behold, other scriptures I would that ye should write, that ye have not. …“How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many and did minister unto them?“And … Nephi remembered that this thing had not been written.“And … Jesus commanded that it should be written; …“Now … when Jesus had expounded all the scriptures in one, which they had written, he commanded them that they should teach the things which he had expounded unto them.” I concur with the strong counsel of President Romney, given to a group of seminary and institute coordinators in 1973. He told them, and I quote: “I don’t know much about the gospel other than what I’ve learned from the standard works. When I drink from a spring I like to get the water where it comes out of the ground, not down the stream after the cattle have waded in it. … I appreciate other people’s interpretation, but when it comes to the gospel we ought to be acquainted with what the Lord says. … You ought to read the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants; and … all the scriptures with the idea of finding out what’s in them and what the meaning is and not to prove some idea of your own. Just read them and plead with the Lord to let you understand what he had in mind when he wrote them.” (Address delivered at Coordinators’ Convention, Seminaries and Institutes of Religion, 13 Apr. 1973.)I fear there are far too many Latter-day Saints who do not have a testimony of the gospel from their own diligent efforts. Is it possible that you are living on the reflected light of others who have prayed and pondered the revelations of God? A testimony comes from personal endeavor. The Lord has provided us the means of salvation, but our success is dependent upon individual effort.I conclude with this admonition of the Prophet Joseph Smith, given in 1832:“Search the scriptures—search the revelations which we publish and ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, to manifest the truth unto you, and if you do it with an eye single to His glory nothing doubting, He will answer you by the power of His Holy Spirit. You will then know for yourselves and not for another. You will not then be dependent on man for the knowledge of God; nor will there be any room for speculation. … For when men receive their instruction from Him that made them, they know how He will save them. … Again we say: Search the Scriptures, search the Prophets and learn what portion of them belongs to you.” ( comp. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, pp. 11–12.)To this I add my witness. The holy scriptures are the word of God. If we are to know God, we must read His words, for therein He stands revealed to the honest in heart. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.