I’m going to ask you to pause for a moment and recall the feeling that you just had as you stood and joined in the singing of “We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet” ( no. 196), as you looked upon our living prophet.Never have I experienced the spontaneous outpouring of love that we witnessed during our singing of that great song. We felt the love taught by the Savior.I hope that all of you will recall this experience, will remember it, will write it down. Perhaps you might say that words really cannot describe the way you felt as you looked up here at our prophet. Maybe you felt as I did—that my heart would burst. May that become part of your history.In the hearts of all mankind, of whatever race or station in life, there are inexpressible longings for something they do not now possess. This longing is implanted in man by a loving Creator.It is God’s design that this longing of the human heart should lead to the one who alone is able to satisfy it. That fulness is found only in Jesus the Christ, the Son of our Eternal Father in Heaven. Paul declared, “For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell.” Jesus Christ was chosen and ordained to be the one and only Savior and Redeemer of the world. To the brother of Jared He said:“Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. … In me shall all mankind have life, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name.”  1982 edition.)He taught His disciples:“I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. …“That every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.” Today, much of the world is celebrating Palm Sunday—commemorating our Lord’s entrance into Jerusalem. The multitudes, as described by Matthew and John, “spread their garments in the way”  and “took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him” It was the time of the annual feast of the Passover. For some time the chief priests of the Sanhedrin had conspired together to find an excuse for taking Jesus and plotted to put Him to death. They felt their opportunity had arrived.The day preceding the eating of the Passover, Jesus instructed His disciples where to find a room so they could meet together and receive His instructions. In that room Jesus met with the Twelve, and they sat down to eat. After they had finished, Jesus taught them and ministered to them. He washed their feet and said to them:“Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.“If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another’s feet.”  Then He taught them:“Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. …“Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; …“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.” He continued to teach:“Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.“In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.“And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.“And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.” But Thomas asked, “Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?”  The Savior replied:“I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.“If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.” “I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.” “Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you.” While in that upper room, Jesus, initiating the sacrament, picked up bread, brake it, prayed over it, and passed it to the disciples, saying:“This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.“… This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.” After introducing the sacrament, the Savior said to His disciples, “It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.” The Savior prayed to the Father for the Apostles and all believers:“Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:“As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.” After Jesus had finished His prayer to His Father, He left the upper room with the disciples and entered the Garden of Gethsemane to seek solitude and to pray:“O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.” Of His suffering in the garden, the Savior Himself has said:“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink—“Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men.” “Behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent.” As the guards and Judas approached Him, the Lord said, “Behold, he is at hand that doth betray me.” Then Judas kissed Him on the cheek.Jesus asked, “Friend, wherefore art thou come?” “Whom seek ye?” A guard replied, “Jesus of Nazareth.”The Savior said, “I am he.” The guards then led Jesus away to the Jewish rulers and then to Caiaphas, the high priest. (See “I adjure thee by the living God,” said Caiaphas, “that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God.” “I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.” Jesus was then taken before Pilate, who asked, “Art thou the King of the Jews?” Jesus replied, “My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews.” Pilate said to the crowd:“I find in him no fault at all.“But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?” The crowd shouted, “No! No! Not this man, but Barabbas.” (See Then Pilate took Jesus and scourged Him. And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns and put it on His head, and they put on Him a purple robe. (See Pilate said, “I find no fault in this man.” The crowd shouted, “Crucify him. Crucify him. Away with him. Crucify him.” (See And they took Him, the Master—He whom Peter denied three times—and led Him forth. He carried His own cross. He began the long journey to the hill, past the crowds that lined the way, past the weeping women, past the murderous mob that had cried for His crucifixion and through the gates of the city, out to the hill called Golgotha—the “place of a skull.” (See  And there they crucified Him.To the penitent thief hanging beside Him, Jesus said, “To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.” The last mortal words of Jesus:“Woman, behold thy son!” And then turning to John, “Behold thy mother!” And then, “Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit.” “It is finished.” “Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning,” women went to the sepulchre with spices they had prepared, and “found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.” The voice of an angel asked:“Why seek ye the living among the dead?“He is not here, but is risen.”  This announcement proclaimed the most glorious event since the dawn of creation.Mary heard a voice ask: “Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou?”She said, “Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.”She heard someone say, “Mary.”Then she knew Him and replied, “Master.”“Touch me not,” He said, “for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.” (See Later Jesus appeared to the Apostles in the upper room where He had spent the evening with them prior to His death. They were frightened. Then they heard the voice of the Master:“Peace be unto you. …“Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?“Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.” Later, on the seashore at Galilee, while the Savior and the disciples were eating fish together, Jesus asked Peter, “Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?”“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my lambs.”“Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?”“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my sheep.”“Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?”“Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.”And the Savior replied yet again, “Feed my sheep.” (See Three times Peter had openly denied the Lord. Now, three times Jesus drew from him the assurance of his love and loyalty.The time had come for Jesus to ascend to His Father’s throne. Before His death He had declared to His Father, “I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do.” After His resurrection He tarried on the earth for some forty days, that His disciples might more fully comprehend His risen and glorified being and be instructed in matters of the kingdom of God.Now He was ready to leave. The Apostles knew He was the Savior. His disciples would no longer associate Him with only the tomb. They would testify of Him as glorified.As the place for His ascension Jesus chose the Mount of Olives, which He knew well; for nearby, on the slope of the mount at Bethany, He had found rest and affection with Mary and Martha and Lazarus. Also near was the Garden of Gethsemane where He had prayed and agonized alone. He chose the Mount of Olives to ascend from, and upon its summit His feet will rest when He comes again—not as a man of sorrows, but as a glorious and triumphant king.There on the Mount of Olives the Savior instructed the Apostles and all who believe:“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.” I testify by the power of the Holy Ghost that this same Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, crucified for the sins of the world “to cleanse it from all unrighteousness;“That through him all might be saved.” (See  “He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom.” He is our Redeemer, our Lord, our King. His kingdom is again established on the earth, which is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This church, by divine direction, is preparing the world for His second coming—for He will come again—I humbly declare in His holy name, amen.Others today here have spoken about the temple, but last November, at the dedication of the Jordan River Temple, we held three services a day for five days, and we didn’t say it all. This is a good time to talk about temples, and I would like to explain what temples are for. As a people, the Latter-day Saints have accomplished a magnificent work in the temples. They serve with commendable devotion to find the names of deceased relatives, to work in extracting names from the records, and then to perform the ordinances for the redemption of the dead as well as for themselves. Over sixteen thousand temple workers give voluntary service in the temples, thus approaching in numbers the force of full-time missionaries who are proclaiming the gospel.This is a day of prophetic fulfillment. As Isaiah said twenty-seven hundred years ago:“It shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.“And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.” The meaning, depth, and power of that expression can only be perceived by those who know about temples.We are passing through a remarkable period in connection with the temples. Four more new temples were announced last week. The past two years have seen the number of temples, including those in operation and those in planning or under construction, increase from twenty-one to forty-one. Three of these have been dedicated and have commenced their operation in the same period. Nothing of like nature has taken place in the entire history of the Church. The stake conferences now being conducted throughout the Church are to teach the Latter-day Saints more about our mission to serve in the house of the Lord.As we study the scriptures, we learn that the doctrine of the temple requires the following of the Latter-day Saints:First, the building of temples.Second, going to the temple for our blessings.Third, returning to perform the ordinances for deceased relatives.Fourth, doing the work for others as well.Fifth, frequent attendance for personal spiritual benefit.What are all these temples for?First:  Going to the temple is  optional. Temples are “a place of instruction for all those who are called to the work of the ministry … that they may be perfected in [their] understanding … in all things pertaining to the kingdom of God on the earth.”  “Therefore, verily I say unto you, that your anointings, and your washings, … your solemn assemblies, … and … your oracles in your most holy places … [are] for the glory, honor, and endowment of [Zion’s] municipals [or in other words, her citizens, and] are ordained by the ordinance of my holy house, which my people are always commanded to build unto my holy name.” The endowment in the temple is a necessary and sacred blessing as essential for the members of the Church as baptism. Thereafter come the sealings of wives to their husbands and of children to their parents. Without these blessings there is no fulness of the gospel. Without them, said Moroni, the “earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.” Countless families in distant areas have never had this privilege. Even in areas where temples have been established for generations, half of the families have never been sealed together. Second:  The scriptures and the doctrine, however, refer more specifically to a particular group of the dead. Malachi spoke about “binding” fathers to children and children to fathers. (See  Joseph Smith emphasized temple blessings for our  dead,  dead. (See    The emphasis is on the family. The priority is to seek out our own deceased relatives. My own grandparents performed “all” the temple work for their deceased relatives fifty-five years ago. Since that time our family has discovered sixteen thousand others. In areas where new temples are being built, this work is just beginning. The controlled extraction process being carried on in many of the stakes of the Church with such great devotion and success does not touch those of the more recent generations and will not save those of our own close relationship. It is, however, of immeasurable value as the more distant generations are reached.And may we always remember that we perform the temple ordinances for people and not for names. Those we call “the dead” are alive in the spirit and are present in the temple.The purpose of the Church, then, is to have a prepared people, ready to receive the temples as they are completed. It would be unfortunate to build temples around the earth and have them stand largely idle. One way to prepare people is to give a strong sermon. Sometimes the result is that we feel guilty. Then after two weeks this feeling wears off, and we get over it. The answer to having a prepared people lies with the leadership of the priesthood.In Chile, for example, where I served at the time the temple in Santiago was announced, it was found that among one hundred thousand members only three thousand men had been ordained to the priesthood. Thus, since they must have the priesthood to enter the temple, only a limited number would be qualified. We determined, therefore, that we would prepare at least ten thousand men to be thus ordained so that they with their faithful companions could then go to the temple.The Saints in Chile have also undertaken the responsibility to prepare one hundred thousand names of their deceased relatives to take with them to the temple by the time it is ready. Similar preparations are being made in other areas.Now, where temples have long been established, it is time for a renewed and continuing preparation. This is the work of home teachers, quorum presidents, bishops, and especially high priests, as well as all others involved in teaching the gospel. I remember one elders quorum president who determined that his leadership objective would be to help every member in his quorum to go to the temple. His initial report stated that all but six had qualified. He later reported that all but three had gone before he was released. After his release, however, they “got” the other three.Having the privilege of working each day in the administration of the temples, I am constantly impressed with the richness, the holiness, and the glory of the blessings administered there. Questions come to us about the ordinances performed in the temple. We, of course, are not permitted to discuss them outside the temple, because of their sacred nature. Others press for a preparatory orientation so that those who enter the temple will not be confused. I want to emphasize that  Nothing is said or done in the temple which does not have its foundation in the scriptures.The gospel is  This implies a willingness to accept His doctrine and take upon us His name, being obedient to His commandments.  and a cleansing from all iniquity.  whereby we have made the covenant and promise. It is the right to have the  which, when we have a correct frame of mind, will teach us as we go through the temple.  The answer to almost any appropriate question about the temple will be found in the scriptures for those who seek it.  It is  and it is  and  It is also Now may I give some counsel to teachers, bishops, and stake presidents. No one, of course, will learn all about the temple by only one experience; but if you want to prepare your people for the temple, teach them the gospel. Don’t try to teach them what goes on in the temple—we go to the temple to learn about that. If these gospel principles are properly established in our lives, we will understand the temple all right. If they are not in place, nothing else can help, and those lacking that knowledge ought not yet to go.May God bless this people to embrace the blessings and perform the sacred service provided in the temples, is my sincere prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.