My beloved brethren: This is a glorious sight! How we appreciate the service you so willingly give to the Lord. We know God will bless you for it.To all you young men—Aaronic Priesthood holders—we love and appreciate you. We are so grateful for your dedication and faithfulness. With all my soul, I encourage you to resolve now that you will be clean and worthy to serve the Lord all the days of your life. Therein is true happiness.Tonight, I speak to all priesthood holders, you who have responsibility for our Father’s children. My message is Most of you are familiar with the Savior’s description of members of the Church and their leaders. True followers He called sheep, and priesthood leaders He called shepherds.We remember His unforgettable example of a true shepherd’s concern for his sheep:“If a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, … and seeketh that which is gone astray?“And if it so be that he find it, … he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.” In Jesus’ time, the Palestinian shepherd was noted for his protection of his sheep. Unlike modern sheepherders, the shepherd always walked ahead of his flock. He led them. The shepherd knew each of the sheep and usually had a name for each. The sheep knew his voice and trusted him and would not follow a stranger. Thus, when called, the sheep would come to him. (See At night shepherds would bring their sheep to a corral called a sheepfold. High walls surrounded the sheepfold, and thorns were placed on top of these walls to prevent wild animals and thieves from climbing over.Sometimes, however, a wild animal driven by hunger would leap over the walls into the midst of the sheep, frightening them. Such a situation separated the true shepherd—one who loved his sheep—from the hireling—one who worked only for pay and duty.The true shepherd was willing to give his life for the sheep. He would go in amongst the sheep and fight for their welfare. The hireling, on the other hand, valued his own personal safety above the sheep and would usually flee from the danger.Jesus used this common illustration of his day to declare that He was the Good Shepherd, the True Shepherd. Because of His love for His brothers and sisters, He would willingly and voluntarily lay down His life for them. (See Eventually, the Good Shepherd did give His life for the sheep—for you and me, for all of us.Later, after His resurrection, Jesus directed Peter to “feed my lambs. … Feed my sheep. … Feed my sheep.” (See Three times this charge was repeated to the newly designated head shepherd.Do you think that Peter recalled the parable of the good shepherd?Do you think that Peter could remember what a good shepherd was to be, what he was to do?Do you think he ever questioned his Lord’s example as being too idealistic?It must have impressed Peter deeply, for tradition has it that he also willingly gave his life for the cause.The expressive symbolism of the Good Shepherd is not without significant parallel in the Church today. The sheep need to be led by watchful shepherds. Too many are wandering, some are being enticed away by momentary distractions, and others have become completely lost.Ponder carefully these representative samples from several stakes which illustrate the magnitude of our problem.We know great results can take place when the shepherds make a concerted effort and show concern.In one stake in southern Utah, concerted efforts have been made to reactivate prospective elders. In a period of two years, over 100 men were ordained elders in the Melchizedek Priesthood. Their ordinations raised sacrament meeting attendance in the stake by 14 percent.A stake in Arizona advanced 47 prospective elders to the Melchizedek Priesthood; another in the state of Washington advanced the same number. Both continue to use the temple preparation seminars.The districts of one mission in Great Britain have reactivated more than 600 members with the help of full-time and stake missionaries.A stake in South America, through prayerful and earnest efforts, reactivated 146 prospective elders in less than one year. Forty-five more are now ready for ordination to offices in the Melchizedek Priesthood.We realize, as in times past, some of the sheep will rebel and are “as a wild flock which fleeth from the shepherd.”  But most of our problems stem from lack of loving and attentive shepherding.With a shepherd’s care, many of our new members, those newly born into the gospel, would be nurtured by gospel knowledge and new standards. Such attention would ensure that there would be no returning to old habits and old friends.With a shepherd’s loving care, many of our young people, our young lambs, would not be wandering. And if they were, the crook of the shepherd’s staff, a loving arm, would retrieve them.With a shepherd’s care, many of those who are now independent of the flock can still be reclaimed. Many have married outside the Church and assumed the life-styles of their marriage partners.The problem, I repeat, is serious and considerable in its magnitude.We offer no  solutions to this  problem. The charge Jesus gave to Peter, which He emphasized by repeating it three times, is the proven solution: “Feed my lambs. … Feed my sheep. … Feed my sheep.”The answer, then, is found in shepherding the flock. In other words, priesthood watch-care. It is real concern by a true shepherd, not just the feigned concern a hireling might show.Here are some questions every true shepherd should ask:
	
      Are you watching over your families as you should?Are you ministering to their needs?Do you care enough about your families’ welfare that you find out their interests, that you remember birthdays and special events, and that you continually pray for them?Are you the first one to the home when the family needs assistance?Does the head of the household call on you first?Are you attentive to the needs of each member of the family?When one of your assigned families moves, do you know where they have moved? Do you make an effort to obtain their new address? Have you checked with neighbors, friends, and relatives?
	
      Are you welcoming into your ranks new converts?Do they  your love and concern?Are new converts invited into your homes?Do they know what family home evening is and how to use it?Does the family feel welcome and comfortable in your midst?Do you ordain worthy male members to offices of the priesthood following baptism?Do you give them meaningful Church assignments?
	
      Do you leave the ninety and nine and search after the lost one?Do you call and appoint advisers and others who can reach impressionable youth and visit them on their “own ground”?Have you fully implemented the youth program, and are you using this program to meet the individual needs of the youth?Are you watchful over the young singles, the divorced, and those with special needs?Do you carefully and spiritually prepare those who enter military service?Are you especially attentive to young men between the transition period from Aaronic Priesthood to Melchizedek Priesthood?Bishops, do you make sure they come under the care of their new shepherd, the quorum president?Do you provide significant Church-service opportunities for our returned missionaries so these young men and women do not drift into inactivity because they do not have occasion to serve as they have been doing for eighteen months?Do you use visiting teachers to augment home teaching?Are you teaching fathers their duties?Do you have temple preparation seminars to encourage prospective elders to prepare for the Melchizedek Priesthood and the temple?Do you have older prospective elders assigned to the high priests and invited to join those with whom they would feel most comfortable?Are younger prospective elders invited to participate with the elders quorums?Some leaders say that some men are past hope, but, as the angel told Abraham, nothing is impossible with the Lord! (See  One brother who was regarded by some as a hopeless case tearfully exclaimed to the temple worker at the sealing altar, “I don’t know why I waited so long for this blessing!”In a recent Saturday evening meeting of leaders I heard a determined brother state, “I’ve sure had a time with the devil since I started to become active. Prior to that time, I just went along with him.”Are we helping the one who needs help because he has started on the way back to full activity?
	
      Are you attentive to the records of Church members under your charge—especially those who are not participating with you in meetings?Do you obtain forwarding addresses from home teachers when members leave your midst, or are you just relieved to get them off your records and send their records to the “address unknown” file?
	
      Are you holding family prayer with your family, morning and evening?Do you hold a regular, consistent, inspiring family home evening once a week?Do you lead out in spiritual matters?Is your example what it should be before those whom you lead?Do you ask and pray for the welfare of your own?Do you love them?Would you give your life for them?
	
      We ask you solemnly to evaluate your performance in relation to these matters.We call on you, as Paul did to the elders of Ephesus:“Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over … which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers,  which he hath purchased with his own blood.”  italics added.)We repeat to you the charge Jesus gave Peter. We repeat it with the same emphasis, the same repetition: “Feed my lambs. … Feed my sheep. … Feed my sheep”!We call on you to extend yourselves with renewed dedication. We want you to do something you have not been doing. We want you to watch, to feed, to tend, and to care for the flock and, in the event that some are temporarily lost, we challenge you to find them.Why should you do this?Because you love your brothers and sisters. You want them to have joy in our Father’s kingdom.There is no greater work in all the world than that of saving souls. Incomparable joy can be yours when you bring souls unto Him!If you will be prayerful and earnest in your desires to tend his flock, the Lord will bless you with success.This we promise you!God bless you, my brethren of the priesthood, watchful shepherds all, to know your flock and to be known of them. May we carefully attend and protect them so that they may remain safe and free from harm. This is our challenge, our duty, and our joy, which joy I promise to all of you as you accept the challenge and do your duty.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brethren, I come humbly to this pulpit. As a young man I recall President J. Reuben Clark pleading time after time in general priesthood meetings that there be unity in the priesthood. He would quote frequently the message of the Lord, “I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.” Unity in the priesthood should reflect unity in our homes. One wonders why so many more homes are now being weakened and why so many families are disintegrating. The reasons are complex. No doubt it has much to do with the social disorders of the day. We are all subjected to sparkling, enticing false advertising. Violence is powerfully portrayed everywhere. Our society is permeated with the suggestion that selfishness and instant gratification are acceptable or even respectable conduct. The evils of alcoholism have exploded and been magnified by other forms of drug abuse. The sexual revolution has been crippling to the spiritual, mental, and physical health of families.Among the assaults on families are the attacks on our faith, for which parents should prepare their children. Some of it is coming from apostates who had testimonies and now seem unable to leave the Church alone. One, complaining of Church policy, was heard to say: “I am so mad: if I had been paying my tithing I would quit.” Persecution is not new to the devoted followers of Christ. More recently, however, the anger and venom of our enemies seems to be increasing. Brigham Young said, “We never began to build a temple without the bells of hell beginning to ring.” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1973, p. 410.) With twenty-two temples under construction or in the planning stage, there seems to be a lot of bells to be rung.When I hear of a family breaking up, I question if family home evening and family prayers have been regularly held in that home and if the law of tithing has been observed. Has that family reverenced the Sabbath day? Have the parents murmured against Church teachings and leaders? I wonder what could possibly justify the forsaking of eternal promises made in the temple, or what could warrant the breaking up of a family with children of tender years.Why is one family strong, yet another family weak? The problems are infinitely complex. Yet, there are answers. Abundant evidence shows that the presence of a firm, loving father in the home is far more likely to produce responsible, law-abiding children than if the father is not there, or if he does not function as a father at home. In either case it throws a double burden on the mother.Malachi said the whole world would be smitten with a curse if the hearts of the fathers were not turned to the children, and if the hearts of the children were not turned to their fathers. (See The presence of the father in the home, coupled with one or both of the parents being active in Church, and with discipline in the home, seems to produce stable, strong families.Surely, the most important ingredient in producing family happiness for members of this Church is a deep religious commitment under wise, mature parental supervision. Devotion to God in the home seems to forge the spiritual moorings and stability that can help the family cope. Some may say this is an over-simplification of a very complex problem, yet I believe the answers lie within the framework of the restored gospel of Christ.One of the reasons for weakened families is the lack of absolutes. An absolute has no restriction, exception, or qualification. It is fixed and certain. There must be some things which family members should always try to do, and some activities that family members should scrupulously avoid. Truthfulness should be an absolute in every family.How can parents and family members introduce and build familial strength? One of my closest boyhood friends recently died of cancer. His family decided he would be happier spending his last days in his own home, so they took him out of the veterans hospital, where the cancer was diagnosed, and cared for him within the familiar walls of his own house. His eighty-one-year-old mother left her home in another state and moved in to supervise the tender, loving care. A sister and a brother left their homes far away several times to help in the emergencies. His children, some of whom also lived away, came and set up a twenty-four-hour vigil so that he would never be alone.After a few months he passed away, wasted and emaciated, but contented and happy. He had been loved into death. The family could have left his care to the government and the veterans hospital, with no expense and little personal inconvenience being involved.Some parents have difficulty expressing their love physically or vocally. I do not ever recall my own father using the words, “Son, I love you,” but he showed it in a thousand ways which were more eloquent than words. He rarely missed a practice, a game, a race, or any activity in which his sons participated.The touch and time of the mother in the home makes it warm, comfortable, and pleasant. Our wives and mothers deserve special support. President George Albert Smith, addressing husbands and fathers, said:“Some seem to think that the woman’s responsibility is to take care of the home and everything else while the man goes to meetings. I want to tell you that your chief responsibility is in your own home.” (Seventies and Stake Missionary Conference, 4 Oct. 1941, p. 8.)This was confirmed by President Harold B. Lee: “The greatest of the Lord’s work you brethren will ever do as fathers will be within the walls of your own home.” (in Conference Report, Apr. 1973, p. 130.)Let there be no ill will or anger between parents and children, brothers and sisters, and kinsmen. Lingering feelings of hurt or disagreement should be settled quickly. Why wait until one party is dying or dead? May the rich humanness of warm, loving family life be restored and prevail in all our kinship.How can our priesthood leaders, already administratively burdened, be helpful to parents in order to help their children? I believe the answer is basic. In the last days of the Savior’s ministry he said to Peter: “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat:“But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.” There needs to be a converting and a strengthening of parents. This comes about by the teaching, the understanding, and the applying of gospel principles. It is a great challenge to the priesthood leaders to have everyone in our wards, branches, and quorums be strengthened in their understanding of the gospel. Priesthood leaders are clothed with great authority. When bishops and other priesthood leaders are needed for specific family or personal reasons, their availability is a great strength and comfort. Their genuine interest and concern for us as individuals is a vital support mechanism.Now, brethren, in conclusion may I say something to promote better understanding in our work. Let us not perceive that just because we are holding our meetings, making our home teaching visits, and are involved in other activities that we are necessarily fully serving the membership of the Church. All of the Spirit, the goodness, and the mercy of Christ should be found in our ministering in the Church and in our families.Religion in the distant past has often been cloaked with rigorous fanaticism, bigotry, and intolerance. With the restoration of the gospel came the holy priesthood of God, to be exercised not in the spirit of coercion and compulsion but in the spirit of free agency, resting on a foundation of “gentleness and meekness, and … love unfeigned.”  This is the sweet spirit of the Christ himself.Now, these exalted concepts must be implemented by wise men. As direction is given in the Church and in our homes, there should be no spirit of dictatorship and no  The keys and powers of the priesthood can be “handled only upon the principles of righteousness.” God, through his prophets, has given the priesthood in recent times the great challenge to advance worldwide the holy work in which we are engaged. All worthy men may now be given the priesthood. With the coming of these inspired changes, I wonder if there has been an enlarging of attitude based upon the exalted principles the Savior taught. Has the extended responsibility of the priesthood caused us to have a better understanding of our work? Are some of us unsuccessful in differentiating between the sin and the sinner?Many of us have sat in ward councils, priesthood executive councils, and other meetings on the ward levels. We took the time to identify the names of those who had lost their way. But our efforts to reach them could have been more effective. At times we were too judgmental. Sometimes we lost track of the individual in our focus on the program. I do not criticize the programs and activities. I am grateful for them. They are necessary. They are inspired and great. I only ask for greater concern for the individual and the family, which after all is the purpose of God’s holy work. “This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.” May we put our lives and homes in order. We must stay true to the great absolutes of the restored gospel: namely, Christ and him crucified, the divine restoration of the gospel in our time, the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon, Joseph Smith’s divine calling as a prophet of God, and continuing revelation to his successors, according to the needs of the Church and its members.If we are united and go forward under the leadership of those who have the keys to the kingdom of God on earth, our homes will be enriched, our lives purified, and the gates of hell will not prevail against us. May we follow the counsel of Alma, and “stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.