“Will a man rob God?”  This must be one of the most pointed questions ever asked in the holy scriptures. The implications are that an affirmative answer would mean that those who rob God will be cursed by God and burned as stubble at the Lord’s second coming. (See  This query was made of ancient Israel through the prophet Malachi, but it didn’t apply only to ancient Israel. It quite obviously applied to the Nephites and Lamanites on this continent, too, for the resurrected Lord repeated it to them when he visited them in about  34. (See  I presume modern Israel is also included under the same injunction, for surely the Lord used almost the same words when he warned of the burning that would precede his second coming, and tithing seems to be the critical judgment criterion. (See On the other hand, those who do pay tithing (give the Lord  tenth) are promised that the windows of heaven will be opened to them and their blessings will exceed their ability to receive. (See  Further, the Lord “will rebuke the devourer for [their] sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of [their] ground.”  This is a blessing of great magnitude.Obedience to the commandments of the Lord, including the important commandment of tithing, brings many blessings. We do not always know how the Lord will bless us. For example, possibly the following experience common to most of us may serve to illustrate.Have you ever been following a slowpoke car that is doddering along with the driver looking at everything along the way, and you know that if he doesn’t speed up you are never going to get through on that green light? But then he does speed up—just enough to get through on the yellow light—and you have to stop. This has a great tendency to test the patience. Sometimes we even start thinking rather derogatorily about him as he drives away. However, it just may be that the Lord is protecting us from an accident two miles down the road because we stopped at that light, even though we did it reluctantly. If you entertain these kinds of thoughts, it may have a tendency to make you thankful instead of irate or angry, which is much better for your digestion.I had this principle vividly impressed upon me one day a long time ago. I was living back in Virginia at the time, and one beautiful fall day I drove out into the country to pick up some walnuts. There were sixteen Stop signs between my home and the very, very heavily wooded lane where I turned in to get those walnuts. I stopped fifteen times. The last Stop sign was way out in the country. I could see in both directions. There were no other cars in sight. I thought to myself: “Why should I stop? Stop signs are to protect people, but I am the only one around. So why stop?”  I wasn’t speeding. I just went through at the speed limit. When I reached the heavily wooded lane, I found I couldn’t see around the corner. It’s that way back there in Virginia. So I slowed down and turned in. Just as I did, there was another car coming out of the lane, and because we couldn’t see each other, we ran together at about five miles per hour. It wasn’t a hard impact and the cars weren’t severely damaged. As I recall, it only cost me $168 to replace my grill and headlights.Now, that accident had to be perfectly timed. Of course, if I had stopped at the last Stop sign, it would never have happened. I said, “Lord, I get the message. You really didn’t have to go this far, but I do understand.” In fact, I stopped sixteen times on the way home with the front end of my car beat up.It does seem that the Lord requires obedience in order for us to receive his blessings, which include rebuking the devourer. “There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which  blessings are predicated.” When we receive a blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. (See  italics added.) This could reach even to a Stop sign, too, I suppose.“Let no man break the laws of the land,” says the Lord. “For he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land.” Malachi continues, “Neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field.” (We will avoid waste.) “And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts.” It is a fact that we even look better when we pay tithing. There is a happiness that comes into the heart of the tithe payer that even reflects in his countenance.Then the Lord seems to lament somewhat: “Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee?” (When did we ever say anything against the Lord?)The Lord answers, “Ye have said, It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts?“And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered.” Did you ever look at the boat in the driveway of the nonmember next door and think: “He doesn’t pay tithing, or perhaps attend church on Sunday. He gets to watch the Super Bowl and the World Series and so forth on Sunday. He doesn’t seem to do any of the things I have to do, and yet he seems to be getting along as well as I am, maybe even better than I am.” Did you ever have any such thoughts? Well, if so, I would imagine that is what the Lord is referring to in these passages. Then the Lord drops the bombshell:“Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another.” (Like we are doing now. Did you ever notice that those who love the Lord are always talking to each other? One meeting after another.) “And the Lord hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name.”  and Ah! the light breaks. There is a record kept—and surely there is one. One group is receiving its reward now; the other is laying it up in heaven; and out of the books which are written and shall be written shall the dead be judged. (See  Then the Lord gives his word, which he cannot break, for surely “I, the Lord, am bound  ye do what I say.”  italics added.) And here is the Lord’s promise: “And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.”  Surely, it is very difficult not to be partial to your own son who is working for you, if he does a good job. I presume there is nothing wrong in feeling that way about your own son. The Lord seems to think not.The Lord continues: “Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.”  This will be quite easy to tell by looking at the record.Now comes the crux of the whole matter of tithing: “For, behold, the day cometh [saith the Lord], that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be as stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.” In other words, those who pay tithing will have roots and branches at the last day and those who do not will have neither roots nor branches. Now what are our roots? Alex Haley wrote a book about roots. Obviously our roots are our ancestors. And what are our branches? They are our children. Then those who walk in holiness before the Lord, which includes the payment of tithing, will have an eternal family at the last day. And those who do not pay tithing will have none.Tithing is necessary in order to receive the blessings of the temple. If a man were to keep all of the Lord’s commandments with the exception of tithing, he still could never be married for time and all eternity in the temple; thus, he would have neither roots nor branches at the last day.Then this becomes really serious, since there is no exaltation without your family. Without tithing there is no exaltation. As we think about it, we know this is true.Tithing, then, is one of the bedrock foundation principles of exaltation. And, as it turns out, when a man pays tithing, the Lord opens the windows of heaven and rebukes the devourer so that it doesn’t cost him anything, but really puts him far more ahead than he ever could have been if he had not paid it. It is a principle of great promise and brings eternal joy and happiness.Who, then, can afford not to give the Lord his tenth? Surely neither you nor I; which witness I bear. For surely the Lord God has spoken it. And in the words of King Benjamin, “He never doth vary from that which he hath said.”  In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.William Shakespeare was insightful when he wrote: “All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players.” ( act 2, sc. 7, line 139.) Let me set the stage for a drama that is not fiction, but is reality. The drama is founded upon certain facts.It is a fact that God lives. It is a fact that Jesus Christ was and is a divine being. It is a fact that the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. It is a fact that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. It is a fact that God revealed his will through his prophets in biblical days, and that he does so today.The script for this drama was written before the world began. The script writer has revealed clues about future scenes to individuals who have shared them with all who would listen.For example, twenty-six hundred years ago, one of the important characters in the drama was shown some scenes of “what shall be in the latter days.”  Daniel the prophet was shown the interpretation of King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream, from which he related, “And in the days of these kings,” referring to the latter-day scenes, “shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.” The scenes relating to these clues are now on stage, front-center.At fourteen and one-half years of age, Joseph Smith went into the woods and prayed to our Heavenly Father, wanting to know which church of all the churches was true. There appeared before him God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. The Father said,   Then Jesus Christ told that fourteen-year-old boy that the true church of God was not on the earth, and that he had been selected to be an instrument in the hands of God in restoring the church of Jesus Christ and the true principles of Jesus Christ. In the scenes following, “the God of heaven set up a kingdom” about which Daniel the prophet said, “[it] shall never be destroyed.”Joseph Smith permitted manuscript pages of the translation of the Book of Mormon to fall into the hands of others, and they were lost. This was displeasing to the Lord, who said to him, “The works, and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught.” “Remember … that it is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men.” “Behold, thou art Joseph, and thou wast chosen to do the work of the Lord, but because of transgression, if thou art not aware thou wilt fall.” Had Joseph not measured up, the Lord would have made a change in the cast by appointing another to take his place. But he did measure up, as attested by further revelations from God which commended him for his faithfulness.The Lord said that this kingdom, which would be established in the latter days, “shall never be destroyed.” We needn’t question whether this church that God has set up is going to fail. It will not! For God has so decreed!Daniel further prophesied that “the kingdom shall not be left to other people.”  We cannot join any ecumenical movement, for if we do so, we will be required to compromise principles. We cannot do that, for the Lord has established the principles upon which his church is built, and we have no right to change them.Eighteen months after the Church was organized, and following heavenly visitations during which the authority to act in the name of God was given to Joseph Smith, the Lord declared that “The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth,” and that the kingdom “shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” Clues to other scenes in the drama have been given to other prophets such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and John the Revelator, as well as others from biblical history; and Nephi, Alma, Helaman, Mormon, Moroni, and others from Book of Mormon history.The star of the cast is Jesus Christ, the Savior of mankind. Many events in his life were the fulfillment of scenes previously shown to former-day prophets. Tomorrow, we commemorate the most important scene of all—the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who suffered and died to atone for the sins of men and women.The number of people in the cast is unlimited. “If ye have desires to serve God,” the Lord said, “ye are called to the work.”  To pass the screen test, one must repent, be baptized, and keep God’s commandments. Anyone is welcome to participate, for the prophet Nephi said, “He inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile.” The acceptance of the gospel of Jesus Christ is affected by attitude. William James, a famous author and psychologist, wrote, “The greatest discovery of my age is that men can change their circumstances by changing the attitude of their minds.” (Richard L. Evans,  [Salt Lake City: Publishers Press, 1971], p. 161.)In the book of Proverbs we read, “For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he.”  Henry David Thoreau sustained that concept when he said that a man becomes what he thinks about all day long. (See  ed. John Bartlett, 14th ed., Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1968, p. 682.)We have our agency. It is the decision of each of us as to the character we play in this drama—as to what kind of person we are or will become.When President David O. McKay was a young missionary in Scotland, he was homesick, discouraged, and low in spirit. As he walked down the street with his companion, he noticed an inscription chiseled in a stone lintel of an unfinished building which read, “Whate’er Thou Art, Act Well Thy Part.” From that moment, he began to act the part of a good missionary and became a great one. This was a learning experience that helped him in numerous important callings he received later in life. (See  comp. Clare Middlemiss, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1955, p. 174.)If we want to be a person of integrity, we act as if we have integrity and we will be a person of integrity. If we want to be a person of charity and love, we act as if we have that characteristic and we will be that person.The Savior alluded to this principle when he asked, “What manner of men ought ye to be?” Then he answered his own question, “Even as I am.” We should strive to become like him by acting as he would act.God does not select the type of life we live. We make that selection by what we think. If you want to play the part, just act the part. What role are you playing now? Are you a valiant supporter? Are you a half-hearted member lacking conviction? Are you a bystander? Or are you one who fights against the Church of God.There is a reward for valiancy in this drama of life. The Savior said, “And … you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.”  It is difficult to conceive of eternal life being a place of joy and happiness without those we love in this life. Based upon our valiance, our future life will include our wife or husband, our children, our parents—yes, our posterity as well as our progenitors.What can I do for my children to help them qualify for eternal life? Several years ago, the Missionary Department made a professional survey to determine what happens to returned missionaries. The survey included those missionaries who had returned from one to ten years previous and was claimed to be accurate within 3 percent. It disclosed that their faithfulness was most exemplary and praiseworthy. It was a revealing report that was much more favorable than one could expect.A few weeks ago, I visited a stake consisting of young families. I asked the priesthood leaders how many of them had filled a mission. I was surprised when every man raised his hand. The next week I visited a more mature stake which was one of the outstanding stakes of the Church, and asked the same question. Every man in the meeting, but two, raised his hand.The conclusion? Not that every man has to be a returned missionary to be a priesthood leader, but that those who fulfill an honorable mission develop an understanding of the gospel and a self-discipline that results in dedication and commitment to what they know to be true.We should organize our family plans to result in a mission for each of our sons, and temple marriage for each of our sons and daughters. Planning missions for our sons might begin at birth when we start their own missionary savings program which will assist significantly in their being financially, morally, physically, and mentally prepared when they reach mission age. However, we should, above all else, teach our children “to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.” What can I do for my progenitors to help them qualify for eternal life? I can help my parents and grandparents to understand the gospel, to be baptized, and to receive these saving ordinances in the temple of God. I can make certain that my deceased parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, and as far as I can go in my genealogical research, have received in person or vicariously the temple saving ordinances necessary for them to gain eternal life. By doing these things for our posterity and for our progenitors, a forever family can be established, resulting in a dynasty of righteous lives that will bring joy and happiness “in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.” The final scene of this great drama is near at hand. The kingdom of God is going forth preparatory to the second coming of Christ when the curtain will fall and the Savior will say to each of the valiant, “Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.”  And thus the kingdom of God will continue forever through the eternities to come. As the prophet Daniel said, “And it shall stand for ever”  with you and I having received judgment and reward according to the role to which we have been faithful in this life—to which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.