Which of the Lord’s Ten Commandments is probably broken the most frequently? I believe it would be taking the name of God in vain. (See Today I should like to treat the important subject of profanity and swearing.According to  (p. 469),  and  all refer to crude or foul language. Profanity and blasphemy usually refer to the irreverent use of the name of Deity.Socrates said to a young man who was introduced to him, “Talk in order that I may see you.” ( p. 72.)We reveal ourselves with our speech. Shakespeare urged in  “Mend your speech a little, lest it may mar your fortunes.” (act 1, sc. 1, line 96.) If we err, then remember the words of Confucius: “A man who has committed a mistake and doesn’t correct it is committing another mistake.” ( sel. Emerson Roy West, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1968, p. 228.)I desire to read to you many of the Lord’s words given through his prophets over the years so we might understand and think as he does regarding improper words.“Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.” “But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.” Have we ever asked ourselves what is the harm or end result of swearing? Jeremiah expresses one thought about it in this way:“For because of swearing the land mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up.” President McKay speaks clearly regarding profane language: “No parent can consistently teach faith in Christ who profanes the name of Deity. Profanity is never heard in the well-ordered home. Swearing is a vice that bespeaks a low standard of breeding. Blasphemous exclamations drive out all spirit of reverence.” ( Salt Lake City: 1953, p. 420.)Judith Martin of the  writes the article “Miss Manners,” which is syndicated in seventy-five other newspapers. She says regarding rudeness of speech:“How does one deal with a rude person? Politely. I don’t believe in answering rudeness with rudeness under any circumstances.“How is that accomplished? With the stare or smile. I do not recommend the snappy comeback and putdown.” ( Aug. 1982, p. 38.)Politeness achieves much more than answering rudeness with rudeness. “Be patient in afflictions, .”  italics added.)The Lord speaks with clarity on this subject through his prophets. President Joseph Fielding Smith states: “Profanity is filthiness. A person is known as much by his language as he is by the company he keeps. … Filthiness in any form is degrading and soul-destroying and should be avoided.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1:13.)If we are not most careful with our thoughts and speech, the words we use will use us. Language has its own ethics, and one who communicates truth is like a bright light in the darkness. We must nurture language like that.How interesting it is to hear nonmembers of the Church express their feelings about bad language. I like very much the title and comments used by Bob Greene of the Field Newspaper Syndicate who speaks of swearing in these terms. The title he uses is “ Pollution.”“Obscenity, the open use of which used to be a mark of lower social strata, has somehow become acceptable in everyday conversation for everyday people.“And yet, I am offended—not out of a sense of morality or of prudishness—but because foul language used casually in public comes close to the idea of a violation of privacy. I know that there are some around who feel assaulted by hearing it. I chose that word very carefully; certain language is an assault on the senses.“Those who disagree are probably saying, ‘after all, it’s only words.’ But words are vehicles; they convey messages. And to some people, the message of profanity is a message of ugliness and aggressiveness and a disrespect for civil behavior.“Bathroom and sexual obscenities can now be heard in certain popular songs on the radio, and even some magazines and newspapers have begun to print language that would have been unthinkable five years ago. This practice is usually defended under the name of ‘freedom.’ But whose freedom is it? If the language of ugliness becomes so much a part of our society that it is impossible to escape no matter where one turns, then who is free and who isn’t?”These assaults on the senses and the messages they carry do not elevate—they pull people down.There is no place in this Church or in any of our families for pessimism or negativism. We should be incurable optimists.Irrespective of the condition of a person, he who is a cynic, a pessimist, or negative has the least progress, happiness, and prosperity.On the other hand, the Lord’s way is that the optimist with faith, who is positive, elevating, and edifying, is the individual in or out of the Church who is the most progressive, happy, and prosperous. The Lord said:“Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings.” We should—
	
      Now listen to the prophet’s words as I read them, regarding encouraging, lifting, and edifying:“Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers.” “Cease to contend one with another; cease to speak evil one of another.“… Let your words tend to edifying one another.” In the magazine  Dec. 1982, Dwight Chapin draws to our attention a crucial aspect of creating only positive emotions:“Every time a business in the service industry creates a negative emotion in the mind of a customer or client, that individual will share his dissatisfaction with an average of ten people before the emotion dissipates.“The same research shows that a person who is impressed with a service will share that positive emotion with an average of only three other people at most. Given this situation it’s obvious why negative news travels faster and farther than positive news.”That gives us all the more reason to be uplifting and positive. Profane words  edify.There is some value in this expression of an unknown author: “I shall return again, for I like myself more when I am with you.”Peter and the associates of the Savior were greater because of the Savior. He built them, lifted them, and treated them as they were to become.The associates of Joseph Smith were greater because of Joseph Smith. He raised them and strengthened them. So it has been with all the Presidents of the Church—men are greater because of them.Church leaders do  spend time pulling down people or other institutions. They proclaim their own truths and allow others to express themselves.The Brethren of the First Presidency have upon their shoulders the heaviest burden and responsibilities of any mortal—yet they are never heavyhearted; one who enters their offices always leaves a better person than when he entered.The Lord’s counsel is very clear: “Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.” Do we really  as we read the scriptures? Do we really hear his voice, hearken, and do his will? There are many who  hear and follow him.Here are some good examples of hearing and doing the Lord’s counsel:In 1974 there were only about eight or ten Brazilians serving missions. Then President Kimball asked for more missionaries. By mid-1979 Brazil had over five hundred full-time local missionaries serving, and Mexico had over seven hundred.They heard his counsel, did they not?When I was a mission president in Central America some years ago, two of the elders brought a Catholic Benedictine monk into my office.He had noticed the  of the Church due to an in-depth study he and others had been commissioned to do of 243 different churches. This study had been ordered by the Catholic church with honorable intent; they wished to know the similarities of the 243 churches to see the possibilities of more union and brotherhood.This monk accepted the challenge to study the Book of Mormon and prayed to have divine verification of its truthfulness. As a result, he accepted the Savior by being baptized into this, His church.He is now an active teacher in a high priests quorum in Central America.He saw by investigation the edifying, lifting influence of the Church and hearkened unto the voice of the Lord.A prominent man who had not visited a certain northern Utah high school for some two years attended a sports event and was appalled and offended by the escalation of profanity and crude language he heard.Parents, do we wonder where our families or children are hearing obscene, crude, and foul words? Certainly  in our homes, for our homes are next to the temple in sacredness. They are an uplifting refuge, in which we instruct our families as to what the Lord expects of us.Self-control is an effective quality that lifts anyone above the crowd; a memory of a self-controlled person will always be pleasant. We should never lower our dignity by lowering our language. We don’t ever repeat a profane comment made by someone else. In the text  we read this regarding self-mastery:“The height of a man’s success is gauged by his self-mastery; the depth of his failure by his self-abandonment. There is no other limitation in either direction. And this law is the expression of eternal justice.“He who cannot establish a dominion over himself will have no dominion over others, he who masters himself shall be king.” (As cited by Spencer W. Kimball,  June 1966, p. 525.)Shouldn’t we all have mastery over our tongues and words  of the time, and only elevate and edify?We are in the presence of and being directed by living prophets. This is an absolute truth. The Lord himself directs this, his only true and living church, and I testify to this in the name of Jesus Christ, the Master, amen.I would like to confine my remarks today to the principle of forgiveness as it applies to a person who has been disfellowshipped or excommunicated. By applying this principle we can “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.”  The most loving action the Church can take at times is to disfellowship or excommunicate a person. This statement may seem incongruous to someone who does not understand the true nature of repentance and forgiveness. And even within the Church, members sometimes have difficulty knowing how they should relate to such a person.Should I limit my association to protect myself in case the sin is contagious? Should I show my disgust that he or she would commit such a serious transgression, and take my business and friendship elsewhere? Should I act as if nothing had happened, or should I show forth increased interest in that person to demonstrate my love and concern? These are important questions which deserve genuine answers.I am concerned about this matter, for whatever actions are taken have serious consequences both for the transgressor and for his well-meaning but sometimes ill-informed associates who may be members of the Church in good standing. I am even more concerned about the attitudes of the victims of transgressions—those who were hurt by the transgressor’s actions.For an appropriate example, I look to my own grandchildren. Occasionally they quarrel or speak harshly one to another. But I am amazed and pleased when I observe how quickly the victim of a harsh word or action forgives and forgets. I am delighted that the offender is soon welcomed back into the fold of love by his brothers and sisters. Mother and father teach the offending child not to give offense again. So the family grows in affection.If we are going to teach our children the principle of forgiveness, we need to begin with our own lives. We must set our children a good example. In dealing with family or friends, we hurt them when we are selfish or thoughtless. But if we change our ways to avoid giving offense in the future, it is easier to receive forgiveness. Repentance is a change of behavior which invites forgiveness. If father and mother forgive each other quickly and afterward show increased love and consideration for each other, their children will quickly learn to act likewise. Repentance and forgiveness will become standards within that family.If we learn to forgive one another within the family, we will be able to forgive more readily within the Church and within the community. Like many good things, forgiveness begins in the home. We must remember to teach our children that even if others fail to be kind and considerate, we ought to be slow to condemn and very quick to forgive. We need not be tolerant of sin, but we must become tolerant and forgiving of the sinner. Jesus Christ gave his life to reconcile us to God so that through his atonement we can repent and receive forgiveness of our sins. We owe our Savior a great debt. Part of that debt is the obligation we have to forgive one another.When Jesus taught the Nephites, he told them: “For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your Heavenly Father will also forgive you;“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.”  That forgiveness which comes from our Heavenly Father is so complete that he will not even call to mind the sins we have committed. His forgiveness is so all-inclusive that the Lord will not even remember those sins. But there is a condition attached to that forgiveness:“By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them.” As we plead for mercy, we need to show mercy to others. The injury people do us may appear at the moment to be very great. Yet, just as time heals the wounds of the body, so time also heals the wounds of the soul. As we apply disinfectants to aid in healing the wounds of the body, we need to apply love and understanding in disinfecting the wounds of the soul. To the extent we give forgiveness to others, we can expect to receive forgiveness for ourselves. It is all part of the process of repentance.My special assignment as a General Authority is to assist the First Presidency in bringing people who have committed serious sins back into the Church. I receive, organize, and summarize information for the First Presidency to use in making decisions. I must read the background material to make certain that all pertinent information is available to them. As I read the heartbreak contained in letters of people pleading for forgiveness, I realize the truth of Alma’s statement: “Behold, I say unto you, wickedness never was happiness.”  My heart goes out to those sufferers in a spirit of forgiveness. And instead of dwelling on the wickedness and grief of those who have sinned, I rejoice to read how many have abandoned their sinful practices and are now on the road back to righteousness and happiness. People can and do change.When people are disfellowshipped or excommunicated from the Church, it is done not to punish but to help them. Church discipline requires this action, but we should remember that the word  has the same root as the word  A disciple is a student or follower—one who is learning. Church discipline, then, must become a teaching process. When a person is disciplined, he should not be thrust out and abandoned by his associates. It is exactly at that time that we need to show increased love for such people, to teach and show them the way back to God. It is wicked to reject a child of God simply because he made an error. We need to teach him how to start anew, to change evil practices into righteous deeds, and thus to transform his life. With repentance through service to others, he can be reinstated into fellowship or washed clean in the waters of baptism and brought back into the family of God.To teach people to overcome sin and change their lives for the better is the sum and substance of Christian service. We must do everything in our power to help sinners to change their lives for the better. Otherwise, as the scriptures warn us, we will have to shoulder their sins ourselves. Our obligation is to teach and help them, and the sinner’s obligation is to listen and learn. He will have to bear the whole burden himself if he refuses. But regardless of his present attitude, we must never abandon him nor think his reformation is hopeless. There is hope for everyone, and we must never cease trying to help people understand that through the atonement of Jesus Christ not only the sins of mankind in general but also their personal sins can be forgiven.One thing causes me great concern as I read letters from those who have been injured. I am concerned with the feeling of resentment and hatred some individuals have expressed against the spouse that betrayed or abused them and their children. Occasionally a wife, for example, in a spirit of revenge may attempt to get even with her spouse by sinning in the same manner. But all she does by that tragic action is to destroy herself. Some individuals have expressed such resentment against a former spouse that they write that nothing that spouse could  do could right the wrong he or she committed. They insist they can  forgive a spouse for the pain and suffering that spouse has caused.A person with that attitude can hardly be called a follower of Jesus Christ. Even of those who were so wicked they crucified their Savior, he said: “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.”  So, when Peter asked the Lord how often he should forgive a person who sinned against him, “Till seven times?” Jesus answered, “I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven.”  People can and do change, and our duty is to forgive them.Many people bring troubles and difficulties upon themselves by an unforgiving attitude. Hence, in a modern revelation Jesus Christ revealed this great truth:“Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin.”  I take that to mean that it is a greater sin to refuse to forgive a person than it is to commit the sin for which that person was disfellowshipped or excommunicated. The Lord went on to say, “I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.”  We must be willing to forgive others and even to forgive ourselves.As we struggle toward that perfection which Jesus Christ holds out for us, let us give emphasis to forgiveness. Let us cultivate that aspect of our character and rejoice in the spirit of forgiveness, which is the comforting message of the Atonement. I pray that we may all cultivate that spirit, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.