Brothers and sisters, I want you to know that I stand before you as a living example of Elder Ashton’s definition of endurance. Waiting to stand before these microphones, I have endured pain, anguish, and all the other characteristics he spoke of.Obedience to God’s commands and a willingness to serve have always been requisites for a true disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul teaches us that even the Savior, “though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered.”  Our willingness to humble ourselves and shed the shackles of selfishness seems imperative to our progress and true happiness in this life. Isaiah penned these truths:“Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.“If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land.” The great test of time reveals that he who refuses to accept these true principles becomes unhappy and dissatisfied and, as the Prophet Joseph indicated, “is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God.” In the Book of Mormon a great story and teaching experience unfolds as Alma, the son of Alma, begins his ministry in establishing the Church among his people. From Zarahemla to Gideon the Church was set in order and the gospel of Jesus Christ taught. After a season Alma took his journeys into the land of Melek. There Alma had great success. The people heard and believed the word of God and were baptized throughout all the land.With great happiness and joy Alma departed and traveled to Ammonihah, a city to the north of Melek. There he continued his teaching, but without success. Satan had gained a great stronghold among the people of the city. Despite the prayers and labors of Alma, the people of Ammonihah hardened their hearts and would not believe anything he taught them. They even reviled him, spit upon him, and cast him out of their city.He decided to take his journey to the city of Aaron, being weighed down heavily with disappointment, sorrow, and anguish because of the wickedness of the people of Ammonihah. While Alma was in this state of woe, an angel of the Lord appeared to him and told him to rejoice because he had been faithful in keeping God’s commandments since he had received his first divine message. This angel was the same one who had appeared to Alma and the sons of Mosiah when they were being so rebellious and causing so much harm to the Church. Now the angel told Alma he was to return to the city of Ammonihah and to preach unto the people again, telling them that except they repent the Lord God would destroy them. [see I wonder what his feelings were at that moment, knowing and feeling so strongly the experience he had just endured with these people. He had been reviled and physically thrown out of the city, and I’m sure his life had been threatened. And now he was being told to return once again to these people.Alma’s reaction to this command is most interesting. The scriptures say this: “Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his message from the angel of the Lord he returned speedily to the land of Ammonihah.” Isn’t that interesting, brothers and sisters? It says, “He returned ” Maybe his earlier experience with the angel caused him not to tarry or question, but to react immediately. But I believe he was motivated by love for the Lord and his desire to be obedient. Alma’s reaction and attitude to this request has been of great strength to me as I strive to serve the Lord.As Alma returned to the city, he met a man who provided him with food and shelter. This man, whose name was Amulek, had received a vision and recognized Alma as a prophet of God. Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to preach to the people. Amulek, though a Nephite, had not been as strong as he might have been in defending the truths of God and had fallen somewhat inactive. He was a man of great reputation and was an industrious man who had acquired many riches.Alma was a blessing to Amulek and his family while he abided with them, and they loved him deeply. Finally, the word came again to Alma, saying, “Go,” and also telling him to call Amulek to travel with him and be his companion in teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amulek obeyed and began his missionary labors with Alma. Here again, brothers and sisters, I am strengthened and guided in how I should live and react to the opportunities the Lord gives me to serve. Amulek had much; he was comfortable and well-to-do, had a good wife and children, had a good position in the community, and yet he responded without hesitation to the call to serve.I have recently been called to serve. I am deeply humbled by this calling and responsibility. I know not why I was called, but pledge to you, my brothers and sisters, to react “speedily” to whatever I am commissioned to do, and I will do so without hesitation.I love the Lord Jesus Christ and bear solemn testimony to you that he lives. He is the resurrected Son of God. He is our Savior. This is his only true church, and it is good, of which I bear testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.On this momentous occasion, my first time at this pulpit, I stand humbly and prayerfully. May I share from the testimony of the heart and from the fire of application and experience the personal joy of service in God’s kingdom.I can say unashamedly, I rejoice in the service of God. My experience teaches that the highest goodness attainable is a life of unselfish service to mankind. The Master said, “He that is greatest among you shall be your servant.” It has been wisely said, “Service is the rent we pay for our own room on earth.” We should know that the rent is due on a daily basis and know that the receipt is never stamped “paid in full,” because the rent, service in God’s kingdom, is again due today and due tomorrow.Some mistakenly think that a commitment to service comes  a great spiritual experience. This is like the man who is cold, standing before the stove, and saying, “Give me heat, and  I will put in some wood.” The joy and blessings of service  the rendering of service. The missionary who renders eighteen months of faithful missionary service  has a lifetime to think about it, while perfecting a life of service to others. Some would want and expect the windows of heaven to open they pay their tithing, even though the prophet Malachi so plainly teaches:“Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse … and  me  … saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open  the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.”  italics added.)There comes a time in the life of all people when they must  with their actions what they believe. Jesus said of his own life, “The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister.” Elder Bruce R. McConkie has so eloquently taught us that service is essential to salvation. I have been impressed with the  of doing. Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Being willing is not enough; we must do. Progress is not created by contented people. It is up to us, you and me, to be uncomfortable in complacency, to refrain from being spectators, and to be players in the game of life. The Lord has chosen His people to perform a mighty work. Our home teaching, our visiting teaching should be more than  it should be  with Christian love. It can be done; you can each do your portion of the work because you desire it.Fathers and mothers, with your strength of example you will influence your sons and daughters for eternity with examples of loving, uncomplaining service far more convincingly by  than only by saying. Show your children a life of love for them by a life of love and service to the Church and to our Father’s children in spiritual need.I recall King Benjamin’s instruction to parents as they were counseled in teaching their children:“But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another.” As wisely stated, “Until a man learns to think, he is not an educated man, no matter how many degrees he has.” I would also add that a thinking man will want to serve. The greater your service, the closer your access to God. One who serves and sacrifices goes to bed at night with peace of mind.I think of a dear sister who has crippling arthritis in her hands but faithfully each week, upon entering the genealogical name extraction center in Denver, finds the joints of her fingers limber enough to type the names with efficiency and rapidity—the blessings of unselfish service.Jesus washed the feet of his disciples, feet that were hot, sweaty, and soiled with dust and dirt. He washed not their hands or face; he washed their feet. He who is the greatest shall be the least—he it is who learns to serve. (See Within days of arriving in Europe, Sister Taylor and I, still living out of suitcases in a small hotel room in Germany, were scheduled to attend a mission presidents’ seminar in Amsterdam, Holland. As we drove to and from the seminar, as arranged by the Regional Representative, we set out to meet our leaders in western Europe. We drove an hour each way into a small village to bless a leader and his family. We went to their homes. In each home we met a lovely wife and handsome children. We ate at their tables, slept as invited, and in each case knelt in prayer and blessed their homes, their families, their callings, and the area for successful missionary service. I now know our leaders there. I felt a genuine love for them, and I felt the same response from them.You have those feelings of approaching in some small degree the indescribable joy of the celestial glory. He that loses his life shall save it. (See  My well of spirituality has indeed been deepened.I invite those yet to be members of the Church to come off the back rows as spectators and become participants in the Lord’s restored Church through baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost, that they might also lose their lives in service and thereby save it.Through the years my heart has been changed and softened through service. As the least of the Brethren, I invite all to lengthen and strengthen their service in God’s kingdom. I bear witness to the divinity of this work. I also bear witness that this Church is led by inspired leaders, whom I sustain with all of my soul, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.