My beloved brethren and sisters, for some years now I have been deeply concerned that we are not using the Book of Mormon as God intends.As I participated in the Mexico City Temple dedication, I received the distinct impression that God is not pleased with our neglect of the Book of Mormon.In the eighty-fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord decreed that the whole Church was under condemnation, even all the children of Zion, because of the way they treated the Book of Mormon. “And they shall remain under this condemnation until they repent,” said the Lord, “and remember the new covenant, even the Book of Mormon.” Zion cannot fully arise and put on her beautiful garments if she is under this condemnation. (See This prompts five critical questions to which each of us must respond: Is the Book of Mormon the word of God? For whom was it meant? How important is this volume of scripture? What is its major purpose? How are we to use it?First, is the Book of Mormon the word of God? Yes. God has so testified. (See  So have its writers (see   so has its translator (see  so have its witnesses, and so do all those who have read it and received a personal revelation from God as to its truthfulness.Second, for whom was the Book of Mormon meant? Moroni, the book’s last writer, speaking to us said, “Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing.”  God inspired Mormon, its chief compiler, to put into the book what we would need in our day.Third, how important is the Book of Mormon? Joseph Smith called it “the keystone of our religion.” ( 4:461).“Take away the Book of Mormon and the revelations,” he said, “and where is our religion? We have none.” ( 2:52).“This generation,” said the Lord to Joseph Smith, the translator, “shall have my word through you”  And so it has.“And those who receive [the Book of Mormon] in faith,” the Lord states, “and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eternal life;“But those who harden their hearts in unbelief, and reject it, it shall turn to their own condemnation.” Fourth, what is the major purpose of the Book of Mormon? To bring men to Christ and to be reconciled to him, and then to join his church—in that order. (See  The title page of the Book of Mormon states the book is for “the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God.”The Lord further instructed that the Book of Mormon proves that “God does inspire men and call them to his holy work in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old.” The Book of Mormon being true, then God did inspire his prophet Joseph Smith to translate it and did call him to do the holy work of restoring His church, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Finally, how are we to use the book?We must first read it and gain a testimony for ourselves. Men may deceive each other, but God does not deceive men. Therefore, the Book of Mormon sets forth the best test for determining its truthfulness—namely, read it and then ask God if it is true.Moroni, in the book’s final chapter, issued that divine challenge to every reader in these words:“And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.” This, then, is the supreme assurance for the honest in heart—to know by personal revelation from God that the Book of Mormon is true. Millions have put it to that test and know, and increasing millions will yet know.Now the spirit, as well as the body, is in need of constant nourishment. Yesterday’s meal is not enough to sustain today’s needs. So also an infrequent reading of “the most correct of any book on earth,” as Joseph Smith called it, is not enough. ( 4:461.)Not all truths are of equal value, nor are all scriptures of the same worth. What better way to nourish the spirit than to frequently feast from the book which the Prophet Joseph said would get a man “nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book”? ( 4:461.)President Marion G. Romney understood this. Years ago he started a daily procedure, which he recommended to us, of reading the Book of Mormon each morning for thirty minutes. “I know that it kept me in harmony,” he said, “so far as I did keep in harmony, with the Spirit of the Lord.” Then he added, “It will hold us as close to the Spirit of the Lord as anything I know.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1949, pp. 36, 41.)The Book of Mormon is to be “a standard unto my people, which are of the house of Israel,” said the Lord.  It is a standard we should heed and follow.In the twentieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord devotes several verses to summarizing the vital truths which the Book of Mormon teaches. (See  It speaks of God, the creation of man, the Fall, the Atonement, the ascension of Christ into heaven, prophets, faith, repentance, baptism, the Holy Ghost, endurance, prayer, justification and sanctification through grace, and loving and serving God.We must know these essential truths. Aaron and Ammon and their brethren in the Book of Mormon taught these same kinds of truths to the Lamanite people (see  who were “in the darkest abyss.”  After accepting these eternal truths, the Book of Mormon states, those converted Lamanites never did fall away. (See If our children and grandchildren are taught and heed these same truths, will they fall away? We best instruct them in the Book of Mormon at our dinner table, by our firesides, at their bedsides, and in our letters and phone calls—in all of our goings and comings.Some spiritually alert parents hold early-morning devotionals with their families in their homes. They have a hymn, prayer, and then read and discuss the Book of Mormon.“The elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in … the Book of Mormon,” says the Lord in the forty-second section of the Doctrine and Covenants The Book of Mormon is for both member and nonmember. Combined with the Spirit of the Lord, the Book of Mormon is the greatest single tool which God has given us to convert the world. If we are to have the harvest of souls that President Kimball envisions, then we must use the instrument which God has designed for that task—the Book of Mormon.Elder Bruce R. McConkie stated, “Men can get nearer to the Lord, can have more of the spirit of conversion and conformity in their hearts, can have stronger testimonies, and can gain a better understanding of the doctrines of salvation through the Book of Mormon than they can through the Bible. … There will be more people saved in the kingdom of God—ten thousand times over—because of the Book of Mormon than there will be because of the Bible.” (Address at Book of Mormon Symposium, Brigham Young University, 18 Aug 1978).The Christian world has the Bible—and so do we. The Bible speaks of a people, the Jews; their land, the Holy Land; their prophets; and the birth and ministry of Jesus Christ.But was there only one tribe of Israel? What of Joseph, the birthright son, who saved all of Israel’s family from famine? What of Joseph, whose sons Israel blessed and said, “Let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac”?  What of Joseph, whom Israel blessed and promised that he would be “a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall”?  Where is the record of Joseph?We testify to the world that we have the record of Joseph—even the Book of Mormon. Like Judah, Joseph had a people—the Nephites and Lamanites. Like Judah, Joseph had a land—the Americas. Like Judah, Joseph had prophets, and his descendants also had a visitation from Jesus Christ, even the resurrected Lord.“Know ye not,” the Lord says in the Book of Mormon, “that there are more nations than one? …“Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto another?“… And because that I have spoken one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another.” We invite all men everywhere to read the Book of Mormon, another testament of Jesus Christ.The Bible sits on the pulpit of hundreds of different religious sects. The Book of Mormon, the record of Joseph, verifies and clarifies the Bible. It removes stumbling blocks, it restores many plain and precious things. We testify that when used together, the Bible and the Book of Mormon confound false doctrines, lay down contentions, and establish peace. (See We do not have to prove the Book of Mormon is true. The book is its own proof. All we need to do is read it and declare it! The Book of Mormon is not on trial—the people of the world, including the members of the Church, are on trial as to what they will do with this second witness for Christ.I testify that the Book of Mormon is the word of God; and therefore Jesus is the Christ, Joseph Smith is a prophet, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is true, with its authorized servants to perform the ordinances of salvation today, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.President Hinckley, Elder Larsen, Brethren, Sister Kapp, Sister Young, and sisters. We have been blessed tonight by the music and the spoken word and by a rich outpouring of the Spirit. I am humbled and honored by this call to serve the Lord and you, and feel greatly the responsibility.Here we are in the Tabernacle. And I picture you in every corner of the world in your chapels and stake centers, in your branches—the greatest generations the Lord has ever sent to earth, capable, righteous, willing women, each of you contributing in your own way to the building of the kingdom.We are a covenant people, as Sister Young has so beautifully explained and as Sister Kapp has so beautifully illustrated. We have promised to live our lives in ways that reflect the gospel principles, concerned about and supportive of those about us. President Kimball has said that “great women and men are always more anxious to serve than to have dominion.” ( Nov. 1979, p. 104.)Since my husband’s release as president of the California San Diego Mission, I look at him and my eyes grow misty. At such times he must think the responsibilities of my calling are great (and they are) or that I have burdens and difficult decisions to make (and I do). But my tears are for the respect and admiration I feel for him and for his deep commitment to the Lord, no matter what the call is. When the call came for me to fill this responsibility, he immediately did what was necessary to conclude our mission business and, without hesitation, actively supported me. The ability to do this, I believe, comes from an understanding of gospel principles, knowledge of the covenants we make, determination to live in accordance with that knowledge—and Again from President Kimball: “The real heroines … are women who are more concerned with being righteous than with being selfish. … [They] have true humility, which places a higher value on integrity than on visibility.” ( Nov. 1979, p. 104.)Already I have seen examples of women who so impress me with their spirit and dedication to the Lord; their lives reveal consistent gratitude and faith. There are single women who have found their way into the hearts of entire wards through their good works; mothers of various ages and circumstances (married, widowed, or divorced) who allow nothing to obstruct their mission to rear children in righteousness; wives who nurture and sustain their husbands in sometimes difficult situations; and women who are willing to defend the home and hearth in the public arena and through community service. I have become aware of the refining process through which these women go as they forget themselves in the service of others and sacrifice as they strive to build the kingdom, fulfilling the admonition of President Kimball to “be a much needed force for love and truth and righteousness, …  families, friends, and neighbors.” ( Nov. 1979, p. 103.)We are striving together with one heart and one mind to become that Zion society in which our beliefs are transformed into action.Recently at a fast and testimony meeting, a young woman stood and expressed gratitude for her Primary class and commented how well, with the encouragement of their mothers, each girl had responded to both class work and activities. Then, during that same meeting, a sister stood and thanked her Heavenly Father for the new call to be president of the Young Women. She committed herself to that service, then pleaded with the mothers to see that the girls would be there.Primary and Young Women workers actively participate in Relief Society through their visiting teaching and compassionate service work and through talents shared during homemaking meeting. Sisters, we need to actively support each other as we teach and train. As sisters in the gospel, we are linked together by the service we render so that individuals and families will be strengthened.In  we are told that we are “to be called his people, … willing to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light, … willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort.”When the people understood the baptismal promises Alma set forth, “they clapped their hands for joy, and exclaimed: This is the desire of our hearts.” “Baptism by itself, of course, is not sufficient to allow us to be called ‘children of Christ.’ We must continue on a course of righteousness.” ( 1984, p. 26.)As we live for the constant companionship of the Spirit, we can hear and respond to the still, small voice and be led in what we do and say.In the following words Elder John A. Widtsoe reminds us that our covenants bring more value to our daily acts:“A piece of silver always has a certain value as it passes from hand to hand; it is weighed and we sell it in the market place; but, when that piece of silver is coined into a dollar, it receives the stamp of government service; it becomes a coin of the realm, and it moves from hand to hand to accomplish the work of the realm. So, every act of man, the moment it is fitted into the great plan, the plan of salvation, receives spiritual coinage, and passes from hand to hand, from mind to mind, to accomplish the great work of God.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1922, p. 97.)My 87-year-old mother-in-law was called to serve as my visiting teacher. She has received “spiritual coinage.” She has captured the essence of transforming her beliefs into action as she cheerfully and faithful finds me (not an easy task) at odd hours and gives me a brief, uplifting message. She encourages me, fits the topic to my life, and uplifts me spiritually. Even leaders need to be encouraged.The Lord ofttimes sends his children to answer the prayers of another.A friend lost two sons in a motorcycle accident and for a time she felt inconsolable grief. She was unable to reach the bishop and had turned to the Lord in fervent prayer. When she looked up, her visiting teacher was at the door and stated simply, “I felt that I was needed.”In another situation, a sister’s mother passed away. A friend, knowing the sister’s loss, wanted to help, but was uncertain what she should do. Should she take flowers or food? Her husband suggested she ask the Lord what to take. The answer came, “Just go.” Upon her arrival, the sister was immediately comforted by her friend’s presence and asked her to pray with her. Then the grieved sister commented on what her friend had brought—a needed peace.Many can visit, but because of the covenants we have made, we go in His name. We are able to say and do those things that we would not otherwise know to say and do.Sisters, there are those in our church today who feel lonely and isolated. I have anguished over the cry of those sisters who want to contribute, who want to belong, who long for companionship and yet do not feel love and acceptance. I search, too, for the faces of the dear sisters we wish were here, who may be kept away with struggles of their own, whose presence would make us all stronger. We need you, each and every one.President Hinckley has told us, “God has given the women of this church a work to do in building his kingdom.” ( Nov. 1983, p. 84.) Beautiful things can be done when sisters of the gospel work together.Nephi tells us, regarding our baptismal covenant, “ye [are] in this strait and narrow path which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate; ye have done according to the commandments of the Father and the Son; and ye have received the Holy Ghost.” Then he asks if all is done. “Nay; … ye must press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all men. Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feasting upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, … ye shall have eternal life.” Sisters, I encourage you to prepare yourselves and to prepare your families to receive the blessings of the covenant. We do this by keeping the commandments, by seeking the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost, and by transforming our beliefs into action.As we strive together to give righteous, selfless service in His name, supporting one another, we become united, our light shining forth as a standard, bound together by the good we do, “no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God.” I bear witness of these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.