Dear brothers and sisters, this is very humbling, and I pray sincerely for the Spirit of the Lord to sustain me. Since being called as a General Authority last April, I have developed a greater love for the gospel of Jesus Christ and a much deeper appreciation and love for a great and wonderful wife who has stood by my side through every facet of married life. I am grateful for our five children who sustain us and live as they should, and thankful for parents who taught correct principles and set a marvelous pattern for us to follow. I have learned to love and appreciate good men and women who have influenced my life and stood by my side through many Church callings.I am most thankful to a kind Father in Heaven for the privilege of serving in the Area Presidency of the South Pacific Islands under the leadership and direction of a great and spiritual leader, Elder Robert L. Simpson, and of being one with a counselor, companion, and friend, Elder Philip T. Sonntag. What a thrill it has been in the last month to participate in the dedication of a beautiful temple in faraway Australia, and to see thousands of wonderful Saints as they came from all corners of that great land and raised their voices in song and prayer and appreciation—true evidence that temples are being built in many countries across the face of the earth and that thousands of righteous men and women and children will visit them to be sealed together in family units for time and for all eternity.We visited the Saints in New Zealand and felt the same sweet spirit. Our spirits were lifted and our testimonies strengthened. What a privilege to participate in the dedication of the first LDS chapel in Papua, New Guinea—where 450 wonderful native people sat with tear-filled eyes as President Robert L. Simpson dedicated their beautiful building. A handsome young New Guinean stood in that meeting with a Book of Mormon in one hand and a Bible in the other; he held them high above his head and bore a strong witness and testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ to his people. We thrilled after traveling sixty-five miles to a jungle village to witness the faith and testimony of our members there. They gave us gifts that had been handed down from generation to generation because we represented the gospel they love so much. And we gave a prayer and blessing on their village before we left. Tears filled our eyes as we saw President Kimball’s picture hanging in a building in far-off New Guinea.We felt the spirit of missionary work as we literally watched the prophecies unfold that the gospel of Jesus Christ should be taken to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. (See  I am grateful for the spirit of the gospel, the spirit of missionary work, and the spiritual leadership of great latter-day leaders. I support and sustain them with all my heart.I have observed from many years of activity in the Church that there are some underlying principles of leadership that cause men to become great. There is a certain spiritual ingredient necessary in all areas of activity if we are to reach the pinnacle of performance. George Washington, father of our country, was on his knees at Valley Forge, seeking the spirit and the direction of God. Abraham Lincoln, as he stood on the platform of the train as it left Springfield, Illinois, for Washington, D.C., where he was to be President of the United States, said this: “Without the assistance of that Divine Being … , I cannot succeed. With that assistance, I cannot fail” (Ida M. Tarbell, ed.,  Boston: Ginn and Co., 1911, p. 63.)These same principles of spiritual leadership caused Moses, Nephi, Abraham, and Enoch to become giants in the land. What powers of the spirit did David use as he walked out on the battlefield to meet Goliath? He said, “Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.“This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand.” What source of power did Moses use as he stretched his arm toward the Red Sea and caused the waters to roll back and his people to cross on dry land?Columbus sailed from Spain, and after several months there was mutiny on the ships Pinta and Nina. He was told that if land was not sighted within so many hours they would turn around and go back. Columbus said that he went into the cabin and prayed mightily to God, and on that dark night, 12 October 1492, a small island was sighted, and they named it San Salvador, meaning Holy Redeemer.I bear witness that inherent in every member of the Church are powerful resources of the spirit if we righteously seek them. Man’s closest communication with his Maker is through the medium of prayer. It is the means offered him to place his problems before God and receive spiritual strength and sustenance.Each of us has a right to revelation as far as it relates to our area of responsibility. I sincerely believe if we should ever lose the power of individual revelation in the Church we would have lost most everything. We could implement programs of the Church, but without that great spiritual ingredient we would fail to redeem the Saints, convert the nations, and accomplish the mission of the Church.We can each have access to those great spiritual blessings and that great power used by David and Moses—but there is a price to pay. Let me quote: “There are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen?“Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson—“That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven.”  Now, brothers and sisters, what were the powers of Heaven? They caused the lame to walk, the blind to see, the dead to rise. And through these same powers the earth was organized. But here is the key—the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. (See  The key, then, to the future and to the use of these spiritual blessings is personal righteousness.As President Romney once said, “May we recognize that prayer is the instrument of miracles,” and may we use the power and direction of the Holy Spirit and not rely wholly upon our own ability in the work of the Lord.I bear my witness that God lives, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true, that a prophet of God leads this Church today, that life is eternal. I believe that man was “overbuilt” for this world. Have you ever seen a man who was totally satisfied with what he has here? There seems to be a yearning, a longing, a reaching up for something not had here. I think a wise man of old described it best when he said, “Surely God has planted the seeds of eternity into the souls of men.”I bear witness he has planted those seeds, and I pledge all that I have for the building of the kingdom of God in this work in these latter days, and I confirm this witness and this pledge in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brothers and sisters, I want you to know that I stand before you as a living example of Elder Ashton’s definition of endurance. Waiting to stand before these microphones, I have endured pain, anguish, and all the other characteristics he spoke of.Obedience to God’s commands and a willingness to serve have always been requisites for a true disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul teaches us that even the Savior, “though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered.”  Our willingness to humble ourselves and shed the shackles of selfishness seems imperative to our progress and true happiness in this life. Isaiah penned these truths:“Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.“If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land.” The great test of time reveals that he who refuses to accept these true principles becomes unhappy and dissatisfied and, as the Prophet Joseph indicated, “is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God.” In the Book of Mormon a great story and teaching experience unfolds as Alma, the son of Alma, begins his ministry in establishing the Church among his people. From Zarahemla to Gideon the Church was set in order and the gospel of Jesus Christ taught. After a season Alma took his journeys into the land of Melek. There Alma had great success. The people heard and believed the word of God and were baptized throughout all the land.With great happiness and joy Alma departed and traveled to Ammonihah, a city to the north of Melek. There he continued his teaching, but without success. Satan had gained a great stronghold among the people of the city. Despite the prayers and labors of Alma, the people of Ammonihah hardened their hearts and would not believe anything he taught them. They even reviled him, spit upon him, and cast him out of their city.He decided to take his journey to the city of Aaron, being weighed down heavily with disappointment, sorrow, and anguish because of the wickedness of the people of Ammonihah. While Alma was in this state of woe, an angel of the Lord appeared to him and told him to rejoice because he had been faithful in keeping God’s commandments since he had received his first divine message. This angel was the same one who had appeared to Alma and the sons of Mosiah when they were being so rebellious and causing so much harm to the Church. Now the angel told Alma he was to return to the city of Ammonihah and to preach unto the people again, telling them that except they repent the Lord God would destroy them. [see I wonder what his feelings were at that moment, knowing and feeling so strongly the experience he had just endured with these people. He had been reviled and physically thrown out of the city, and I’m sure his life had been threatened. And now he was being told to return once again to these people.Alma’s reaction to this command is most interesting. The scriptures say this: “Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his message from the angel of the Lord he returned speedily to the land of Ammonihah.” Isn’t that interesting, brothers and sisters? It says, “He returned ” Maybe his earlier experience with the angel caused him not to tarry or question, but to react immediately. But I believe he was motivated by love for the Lord and his desire to be obedient. Alma’s reaction and attitude to this request has been of great strength to me as I strive to serve the Lord.As Alma returned to the city, he met a man who provided him with food and shelter. This man, whose name was Amulek, had received a vision and recognized Alma as a prophet of God. Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to preach to the people. Amulek, though a Nephite, had not been as strong as he might have been in defending the truths of God and had fallen somewhat inactive. He was a man of great reputation and was an industrious man who had acquired many riches.Alma was a blessing to Amulek and his family while he abided with them, and they loved him deeply. Finally, the word came again to Alma, saying, “Go,” and also telling him to call Amulek to travel with him and be his companion in teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amulek obeyed and began his missionary labors with Alma. Here again, brothers and sisters, I am strengthened and guided in how I should live and react to the opportunities the Lord gives me to serve. Amulek had much; he was comfortable and well-to-do, had a good wife and children, had a good position in the community, and yet he responded without hesitation to the call to serve.I have recently been called to serve. I am deeply humbled by this calling and responsibility. I know not why I was called, but pledge to you, my brothers and sisters, to react “speedily” to whatever I am commissioned to do, and I will do so without hesitation.I love the Lord Jesus Christ and bear solemn testimony to you that he lives. He is the resurrected Son of God. He is our Savior. This is his only true church, and it is good, of which I bear testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.