In case you hadn’t noticed it, in the last days, discipleship is to be lived  Our adversities and extremities will merely bring out the strong simplicities and the reassuring realities of the gospel. Likewise, brisk challenges to basic beliefs, and some afflictions, will aid in the development of even greater convictions concerning these basic beliefs. Though it will be the key doctrines which are assailed, after the dust of this dispensation has settled it will be the key doctrines which will have prevailed.Early in the Restoration, by translation and revelation, numerous plain and precious truths appeared in fairly rapid succession. This occurred through Joseph Smith, the “choice seer.”  As when dinner guests arrive nearly all at once, Joseph, as host, received, welcomed, and duly noted each truth. Only later was there time and matured perceptivity to see their relationships and the antiquity of their credentials.Among these plain and precious truths was the doctrine of the premortal existence of mankind. (See  Early on, Joseph received much concerning this truth, but just as the revelations concerning it came incrementally, so did Joseph’s understanding.One of the “plain and precious things” long ago “kept back” or “taken away”  this enormously important truth did not reach the Holy Bible in an abundant degree, though it is surely there. (See    It was briefly extant after the original Apostles. Alas, however, just as Paul foresaw, the time soon came when Church members did not “endure sound doctrine,” including this one. (See With the later disapprovals of councils, the doctrine of premortal existence demonstrably was not a doctrine which could have been reestablished by research. The doctrine does not abuse logic, for “truth is reason,” especially “truth eternal”, but is more than logic alone can fully support. (See  1985, no. 292.) It could only come from restoration by modern revelation. It was certainly not abroad in the land of America until Joseph Smith’s articulations.Furthermore, so much had happened in human history to make the restoration of this key truth necessary. It was needed to confound the false doctrine of a mankind created —out of nothing. (See  The “ex nihilo” view, said the Prophet Joseph “lessens man in my estimation.” ( Andrew F. Ehat and Lyndon W. Cook, comps., Provo: BYU Religious Studies Center, 1980, p. 359.)Without this truth, existential lamentations prevail about how man spends his entire life trying to prove to himself that his existence is not absurd. Even believers, in Paul’s words, if malnourished as to doctrine, can become “wearied and faint in [their] minds” and surrender to circumstance. (See The reality of premortality responds to puzzlings which suggest we are strangers here. It is a curative for the yearnings expressed in music and poetry and literature. There are wonderings such as in these lines:There are ponderings, like this one:“Everything in our life happens as though we entered upon it with a load of obligations contracted in a previous existence … obligations whose sanction is not of this present life, [which] seem to belong to a different world, founded on kindness, scruples, sacrifice, a world entirely different from this one, a world whence we emerge to be born on this earth, before returning thither.” (Marcel Proust, in Gabriel Marcel,  New York: Harper and Row, 1963, p. 8.)And finally, there are these more familiar lines:So far as we know, brothers and sisters, the restoration of this responsive doctrine began with the translation by Joseph Smith of a few verses in the Book of Alma, late 1829 or early 1830. (See  By themselves, however, these verses would not have been adequate. Elder Orson Pratt said: “This same doctrine [premortal existence] is inculcated in some small degree in the Book of Mormon. However, I do not think that I should have ever discerned it in that book had it not been for the new translation of the Scriptures [Bible].” ( 15:249.)In June of 1830, while rewording some of Genesis under inspiration, the “choice seer” received revelation now included in the Book of Moses. Of that special revelatory moment Joseph wrote, “I will say … that amid all the trials and tribulations we had to wade through, the Lord, who well knew our infantile and delicate situation, vouchsafed for us a supply of strength, and granted us ‘line upon line of knowledge—here a little and there a little,’ of which the following was a precious morsel.” ( 1:98.)Included in that “precious morsel” were words of Moses, further enlarging Joseph’s view, about how God’s work involves other planets: “But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power.” The plans and purposes of God were also made more plain: “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”  Thus, the vastness of space reflects the vastness of God’s love for all of His children.Other expanding revelations soon followed. In May 1833, the stunning communication, now known as section 93, declared: “Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be. …“For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy.” Several years passed, years of apparent ripening and readying, before the record indicates the Prophet began to communicate this precious doctrine publicly. In 1839, pondering and contemplating in Liberty Jail, Joseph, by epistle, urged Church members to better behavior, behavior befitting Church members who had been “called … from before the foundation of the world.” ( Dean C. Jessee, comp. Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1984, p. 397.)Joseph also received revelation about what was ordained in “the midst of the Council of the Eternal God … before this world was.”  Imprisoned, Joseph was reassuringly told his own days were known, and his years would “not be numbered less.” Joseph’s first recorded public speech on this powerful doctrine occurred shortly after his release from soul-stretching bondage in Missouri. (See  p. 9.) Other speeches followed, capped finally by the soaring sermon at King Follett’s funeral in the spring of 1844.This declaration to Jeremiah: “Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations”  was paralleled in the 1842 Book of Abraham:“Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones;“And God … said: These I will make my rulers; … and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.” The Book of Abraham, in corroborating section 93, used words whose full measure you and I have scarcely begun to take: “if there be two spirits, … notwithstanding one is more intelligent than the other, [they] have no beginning; they existed before, they shall have no end … for they are … eternal.” Conjoined with the truths of the resplendent Restoration, biblical references to this precious doctrine took on enhanced meaning and gave increased illumination. (See  see also    Indeed, a very major stumbling block was thus removed by revelation. Just as prophesied, Jesus also manifested Himself “in word” in the latter days. (See In Moses’ day, a generous God let his doctrine “drop as the rain.”  In Eli’s day, however, “there was no open vision.”  In Joseph Smith’s day, there was a “pouring down” of “knowledge from heaven”  a cascade of “plain and precious” truths, including the pivotal doctrine of the premortal existence of man. (See A few ancient writings, unavailable to Joseph Smith or anyone else at that time, have since appeared. Apocryphal writings may contain truths to be discerned, for “whoso is enlightened by the Spirit shall obtain benefit therefrom.”  This is an example from the Nag Hammadi Library. In the Apocryphon of James, Jesus reportedly told an afflicted Peter and James, “If you consider how long the world existed before you, and how long it will exist after you, you will find that your life is one single day and your sufferings one single hour” (“The Apocryphon of James,” in  ed. James M. Robinson, San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1978, p. 31.)How like what the Lord told suffering Joseph in jail: “My son, … thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment.” One’s life, therefore, is brevity compared to eternity—like being dropped off by a parent for a day at school. But what a day!Even now, however, many still “stumble at the word.”  Yet, as Paul prescribed, if we blend “longsuffering and doctrine”  some who “murmur” about the human predicament “shall learn doctrine”   by letting this doctrine, “as the dew from heav’n distilling,” revive them, “thus fulfilling What thy providence intends.” ( 1985, no. 149.)Meanwhile, the adversary relentlessly uses the absence or disbelief of this doctrine to shrink man’s perspective. One-dimensional man with only a one-dimensional view of the world will surely focus upon the cares of the world, yielding to the things of the moment.Latter-day Saints do not, of course, ask others to accept this or any gospel truth against their wills. We ask only for tolerance, and expect such doctrines to be scrutinized and even criticized by others. We reserve the same freedom regarding others’ beliefs—but all in mutual good will, however.Premortality is not a relaxing doctrine. For each of us, there are choices to be made, incessant and difficult chores to be done, ironies and adversities to be experienced, time to be well spent, talents and gifts to be well employed. Just because we were chosen “there and then,” surely does not mean we can be indifferent “here and now.” Whether foreordination for men, or foredesignation for women, those called and prepared must also prove “chosen, and faithful.” (See  In fact, adequacy in the first estate may merely have ensured a stern, second estate with more duties and no immunities! Additional tutoring and suffering appears to be the pattern for the Lord’s most apt pupils. (See   Our existence, therefore, is a continuum matched by God’s stretching curriculum.This doctrine brings unarguable identity but also severe accountability to our lives. It uniquely underscores the actuality of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man.It also reminds us that we do not have all of the data. There are many times when we must withhold judgment and trust God, even in the midst of “all these things.” Only with the help of this doctrine can we begin to understand things as they really were, are, and will become. (See  Agreeing to enter this second estate, therefore, was like agreeing in advance to anesthetic—the anesthetic of forgetfulness. Doctors do not de-anesthetize a patient, in the midst of what was previously authorized, to ask him, again, if it should be continued. We agreed to come here and to undergo certain experiences under certain conditions.Elder Orson Hyde said, “We have forgotten! … But our forgetfulness cannot alter the facts.” ( 7:315.) Yet, on occasions, there are inklings. President Joseph F. Smith observed how “we often catch a spark from the awakened memories of the immortal soul, which lights up our whole being as with the glory of our former home.” ( 5th ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1939, p. 14.)There can be sudden surges of  A flash from the mirror of memory can beckon us forward to that far pavilion, filled with “everlasting splendours” and resurrected beings. C. S. Lewis wrote, “We cannot mingle with the splendours we see. But all the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumour that it will not always be so.” ( ed. James T. Como, New York: Collier Books, 1985, p. 34.) Thanks to the Prophet Joseph Smith, hundreds more leaves of scripture are rustling, rustling resoundingly for all who have ears to hear.Thus, when we now say “I know,” that realization is rediscovery; we are actually saying “I know—again!”From long experience, His sheep know His voice and His doctrine. Meanwhile, the soul weaving in process for such a long time goes on as described in these anonymous lines:May we so believe, so trust, so submit, and so behave, I pray in the name of Him who is the “Lord of the narrow gate and the needle’s eye” (C. S. Lewis,  p. xxv), even Jesus Christ, amen.Fern attended high school in a small town. She was one of those nice but unnoticed girls who don’t become much but a face on a yearbook page and a name on the rolls. Her family was poor, and they lived out of town. She was not part of the “in crowd,” and the only time her name came up in a conversation of other students was in that mocking, sarcastic way that seems funny when you are young, insecure, and need to ridicule someone else to take the pressure off yourself. Her name became synonymous with anything dumb or out of style. If a thing was unacceptable or ridiculous, the students called it “Ferny.”Young people can be so cruel.It was an annual tradition in the school to recognize the student who showed the most school spirit and support for the athletic teams. When the assembly came to honor that student, as expected, they called out the name of one of the more popular girls in the school. She bounced up the aisle smiling and waving to all her friends. But then a miracle happened. As she took the stage, she said, “I can’t accept this award. Yes, I have loved the teams and cheered for them at every game. But Fern has come to every game, too. I came in a nice, warm car surrounded by my happy friends. She came alone and walked all the way—two and a half miles—sometimes in the rain or snow. She had to sit by herself, but I don’t know anyone who cheered with as much spirit as Fern. I would like to nominate her for the most enthusiastic student in the school.”Fern was escorted to the stage to a spontaneous standing ovation from her fellow students.Youth can be so kind.Fern is a mature woman today, her hair streaked with gray. Many things have happened to shape her life, but nothing more important than that outburst of acceptance and appreciation from her peers on that memorable day.And there are mature men and women today who can’t remember how many games their teams won or lost that year, but who have never forgotten the warm feeling they had when they stood up and cheered for Fern and welcomed her into their friendship and society.Attending a stake conference in the Lancaster California Stake, I heard Marianne Mortensen, a lovely Laurel, tell this story as she developed the theme of showing charity toward our peers.Reaching out to others is not an easy thing to do, particularly when you are young. To take the hand of another at the risk of your own popularity takes a mature, Christlike love. Yet our Savior made no distinction between young and old when he declared, “As I have loved you, … love one another.”  How desperately we need that kind of caring in our world today!Young people are being hit on all sides by open and subtle attacks on their faith, their ideals, their morality, their self-confidence, even their identity. The typical teenager is pictured as being of the “ME” generation: self-centered, turned inward, unfeeling toward others, seeking immediate self-gratification. Though some young people might fit that description, and many others are struggling and failing in the battle of life, others are winning in spectacular ways. Young men and women are accomplishing things today we used to assume it took a lifetime to do. In science, literature, the arts, social, civic, and spiritual work, we can point with pride to millions of talented teenagers who have set lofty goals and are working to attain them.The question is, How can we help those who are stumbling to lock arms with those who are striding confidently up the road of life?“Positive peer pressure,” as the social scientists call it, may be the salvation of this generation. If this be true, think how admirably suited our Aaronic Priesthood quorums and our Young Women classes are to offer such meaningful service.In her talk, Marianne said:“Most of us have a difficult time resisting those who have a genuine love for us. Such people have a way of becoming important to us because we know we are genuinely important to them. The cry of youth today is for genuine concern and for meaningful relationships with our peers. … And when I speak of meaningful relationships, I think immediately of the Golden Rule, ‘Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.’“As teenagers, that is a difficult thing to do. Charity for those outside of our circle of friends is difficult to comprehend when we feel so comfortable within the confines of our ‘group.’ But if we look at the life of our Savior, we see that He didn’t leave His ‘group,’ the Apostles, or those friends about Him. He merely opened His arms to all who would listen. He increased His fold. So … we do not have to leave our group to learn to care for the feelings of our peers. We just need to open our arms and increase our friendships.”Marianne Mortensen was right on target.There is another side to this matter of rendering service to others, not just to our peers, and it applies to those of us who are struggling to find our way.As a boy I sought happiness as the world measures it. I wanted acceptance, position, fame (particularly as an athlete), and wealth. I had none of these. I was very unhappy. I thought happiness was as elusive as a shadow.It was not until I was called on a mission that I discovered the real key to happiness. To my surprise, despite the discouragement, the disappointments, and the plain hard work associated with my missionary labors, I was happy. It was then I learned that happiness is really a by-product of service. As I forgot my own desires, my own weaknesses and frailties in my missionary service, I began to understand King Benjamin’s profound counsel to his people. “And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God.” That is why a missionary can return from the toughest experiences of his life and report, “These have been the happiest two years of my life!”A life can never be happy that is focused inward. So if you are miserable now, forget your troubles. March right out your door, and find someone who needs you.You want happiness? Find ways to serve. Your happiness will be commensurate with the service you render.Just think how much that joy can grow as we expand our love and service to more and more people.Emerson said it well: “Serve, and thou shalt be served. If you love and serve men, you cannot, by any hiding or stratagem, escape the remuneration.” (“The Sovereignty of Ethics,” in  New York: Wm. H. Wise & Co., 1929, p. 1004.)Those we serve, we love. We discover that loving someone else deeply is one of the most joyous feelings we can know, and we begin to understand the bounteous love our Father in Heaven has for us.D. Brent Collette told a stirring story:“Ronny was not just shy; he was downright backward. As a 17-year-old high school senior, Ronny had never really had a close friend or done anything that included other people. He was famous for his shyness. He never said anything to anybody, not even a teacher. One look at him told you a great deal of the story—inferiority complex. He slumped over as if to hide his face and seemed to be always looking at his feet. He always sat in the back of the class and would never participate. …“It was because of Ronny’s shyness that I was so astonished when he started coming to my Sunday School class. …“His attendance in my class was the result of the personal efforts of a classmate, Brandon Craig, who had recently befriended Ronny. Boy, if there had ever been a mismatch, this was it. Brandon was ‘Mr. Social.’ A good head taller than Ronny, he was undisputedly the number one star of our high school athletics program. Brandon was involved in everything and successful at everything. … He was just a neat boy.“Well, Brandon took to little Ronny like glue. Class was obviously painful for Ronny, but Brandon protected him like the king’s guard. I played a low profile—no questions, just a quick smile and once a pat on the back. Time seemed to be helping, but I often wondered if Brandon and company (the rest of the class certainly played it right) would ever be able to break the ice. That’s why I was so shocked when Brian, the class president, stood before our Sunday School class one Sunday afternoon and boldly announced that Ronny would offer the opening prayer.“There was a moment of hesitation; then Ronny slowly came to his feet. Still looking at his shoes, he walked to the front of the room. He folded his arms (his head was already bowed.) The class was frozen solid. I thought to myself, ‘If he does it, we’ll all be translated.’“Then almost at a whisper I heard, ‘Our Father in Heaven, thank you for our Sunday School class.’ Then silence—long, loud silence! I could feel poor Ronny suffering. Then came a few sniffles and a muffled sob.“‘Oh, no,’ I thought, ‘I should be up front where I can help or something.’“I hurt for him; we all did. I opened an eye and looked up to make my way to Ronny. But Brandon beat me to it. With an eye still open I watched six-foot-four Brandon put his arm around his friend, bend down and put his chin on Ronny’s shoulder, then whisper the words of a short, sweet prayer. Ronny struggled for composure, then repeated the prayer.“But when the prayer was over, Ronny kept his head bowed and added: ‘Thank you for Brandon, amen.’ He then turned and looked up at his big buddy and said clear enough for all to hear, ‘I love you, Brandon.’“Brandon, who still had his arm around him, responded, ‘I love you too, Ronny. And that was fun.’“And it was, for all of us.” ( May 1983, p. 18.)Our Primary children sing that glorious song:And therein lies happiness. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.