How I wish I could sit on the edge of your bed with you young women, look into your eyes, and help you understand the greatness of your spirit. We’d talk about the desire to be popular and the influence of friends and the importance of families and good times. Maybe you would tell me about when you have felt discouraged or disappointed, confused, maybe afraid.I think of questions young women have asked me. “How do I stay close to the Lord?” “Can I make it?” “Is there a way back?” In answer to those questions, I raise my voice and say with all the fervor of my soul, “You  feel a closeness to your Heavenly Father. You can make it, no matter how tough the test.” And to some I’d say with the deepest conviction, “Yes, there is a way back—come back.”I would tell you how searching the holy scriptures can answer every question you may ever have in life. I remember a difficult time in my life when I thought I couldn’t make it. I had failed a grade in school. It was awful. I just remember praying with all my heart that I could be smart. Some time after that I became aware that the scriptures could provide answers when I needed help. I’d like to share with you one scripture that really helped me during that time in my life.“Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.“In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.” You might think that I never lack confidence now, but I do sometimes. And when I feel that way, I reread that scripture, and I can feel His love and know He is near.You might wonder how this happens. Maybe you’re like many young people and some older people—you find the scriptures boring, or they don’t have much meaning to you. If so, you haven’t yet put forth the time and effort and faith to learn to understand them and love them. Learning to love the scriptures is a lot like learning to walk. At first you’re unsure—you sometimes stumble, and you don’t get anywhere very fast. But if you stopped trying to walk and gave up, just because it wasn’t fun at first, you’d never know the joy of walking. But as you persist, you learn how to walk; soon you can run and go places where you couldn’t go before.Learning to study the scriptures is like learning to walk. When you first begin reading them, you feel unsure; you’d much rather read something familiar, like a favorite story. But I can tell you from my experience, if you will try reading the scriptures every day, just as you kept trying to walk, these precious records will become as important to you as being able to walk. In fact, I believe more so. Every day will go better for you. Your confidence will grow, and you will find the strength to resist temptation and discouragement. But you have got to begin. So if you haven’t already, will you start tonight by marking a favorite scripture before you go to bed? If you don’t have a favorite one, you could mark the one I shared from Proverbs, chapter 3, verses 5 and 6, and put today’s date beside it as a reminder of our visit tonight. You might start by reading the chapter headnotes to get the feel of the story. The headnote to chapter one in Third Nephi in the book of Mormon reads, in part, “The night of Christ’s birth arrives—The sign is given and a new star arises.” You’re already familiar with that miraculous event, and by reading this chapter you can be comfortably on your way—a first step which can lead to many more each day.I want to share with you an experience I had this summer. I spent three days in a wilderness camp with 150 youth. We did a lot of hiking and had some hard physical challenges like when we rappelled down an eighty-foot cliff. On the last day we were given instructions to go into the woods alone. Before leaving the group, each youth was given a letter from home which had been written by his or her mother or father for this occasion.When I went out alone, I took my scriptures with me. I read about my Father in Heaven’s love for all of us and for me. It was then that I realized that these scriptures are like letters from home.After a time we gathered together. Everyone had opened and read his or her letter. One young woman stood expressing the feelings of her heart. She held her letter close. In her words, “I nearly bawled my face off when I sat there alone and realized how much my mom and dad love me.” I nearly bawled my face off when I read again about how very much our Father in Heaven loves us.Can you imagine being away from home and receiving a letter from your parents and not bothering to open it or read it? This is what happens when we don’t read these precious records. The holy scriptures are like letters from home telling us how we can draw near to our Father in Heaven. He tells us to come as we are. No one will be denied. He loves everyone. (See I ask you, will you open your scriptures and read them every day? Why? Because the glorious promises will then be yours. You can have a sure testimony of our Father in Heaven’s love for you. You can know the gospel plan and the blessings that come through obedience and right choices. The verses you mark will become anchors to cling to when the voices of the world try to confuse you or discourage you. They will lift you up in spirit when you’re down, and you can experience the feeling of being close to our Father in Heaven. I know this, but I’d like you to hear from a young woman who has made a habit of reading the scriptures. I’ve asked Gail Gardner to tell you how it works for her. I read them because there are a whole lot of good things that have come out of scripture reading for me. The times when I feel like I really know and understand my Heavenly Father and what He wants for me have almost always been those times when I’m reading the scriptures. Do you have a favorite scripture, Gail? Yes. One that has really helped me is found in the Book of Mormon in  It talks about man not having the need to run faster than he has strength, but that if he will be diligent, all things will come to him. That scripture helps me because I’ve always been really busy.A specific incident with that scripture happened just a very little while ago. I was preparing to compete in a big speech tournament and was facing college entrance exams. I’d just been called to serve on our seminary council and was worried about responsibilities there. I also have one brother and six sisters whom I really care about, and I wanted to spend time with them. I read through that scripture and others like it which said that all I needed to do was to set a pace for myself and keep up with it. I felt that my Father in Heaven had answered my prayers in that scripture. Gail, how have you made scripture study a habit? I try to keep in mind three things. First, I’ve found that ten minutes of serious studying and concentration every day is much more meaningful and worthwhile to me than an hour of “hurried” reading once a week.Second, I’ve found that it’s easier for me to make scripture reading a habit if I do it for a certain length of time and at a specific time of day, if at all possible. For me, it works best to read at least ten minutes a day, and I usually do that right after my prayers, before I go to bed. Some days are hard, and reading the scriptures every day helps me feel closer to my Father in Heaven and makes it easier to do what’s right.Last of all, I’d say that scripture reading and prayer go hand in hand. A lot of times I don’t understand a scripture, but the feeling I get when I’m studying, reading, and praying can often bring answers to all kinds of questions and doubts. How do you feel about having your own set of scriptures? I love them. These scriptures that I have marked and studied have helped to increase my testimony so much. I’m only seventeen, but the principles and guidelines of the gospel that I understand and have learned to obey have really brought me closer to my Father in Heaven. From my study of His scriptures, I know that they are true. Thank you, Gail, for your strong testimony. I know that they are true, too.To you young women everywhere, will you make a commitment tonight to make a habit of reading your letters from home—your scriptures—more frequently? If you will ask your Heavenly Father in daily prayers to help you understand the messages and find answers to your problems or questions, and if you will strive to keep the commandments, you can have the spirit of the Holy Ghost to teach you and to open your mind more than you would ever have thought possible. These are special messages that are there for you for your individual needs at this particular time in your life.Often while you’re studying you will feel very close to your Heavenly Father, and so you will want to have your scriptures with you. I have this small size so I can carry them with me most of the time. You already carry your schoolbooks; will you carry your scriptures? Make it the thing to do. If you will, others will follow your example. You’ll discover important friends that will be excited to share with you scriptures that are special to them. I have a friend who often calls me on the phone and says, “Have you got your scriptures there?” With excitement in her voice, she’ll say, “Let me share with you what I’ve found.” Then she reads it to me, and I say, “Where did you find that? What’s the reference?” Then I get excited, and I mark my scriptures.But I had to learn to walk first. As you keep trying, sooner than you realize, you’ll have a few favorite scriptures marked that you can easily turn to. And you’ll learn to love these books like special friends. If you do not have your own set of scriptures, make a plan to get them.Let me tell you about this old set that my mom and dad gave me when I was seventeen. I had read the Book of Mormon before, but this time it was different. I was young, and I wanted to know for myself if the Book of Mormon was really true. On this day I had come to the part in Alma, chapter 32,  about faith. As I finished the chapter, I experienced a feeling which I recognized as a witness from the Holy Ghost—I knew the Book of Mormon was true. I wanted to stand up and shout. I wanted to tell the whole world what I knew and how I felt, but I was alone. So with tears of joy streaming down my face, I wrote on the margin all the way around on each side the feelings in my heart at that moment. I made a big red star up in the corner and wrote, “May 31st, 7:30  This I know, written as if to me.” Then I wrote on the other margin, “I have received a confirmation. I know the Book of Mormon is true.” On the other side I wrote, “One month ago today I began fasting each Tuesday for a more sure knowledge. This I know.”Through prayer and study you can know the scriptures are true. I am so anxious for you to know and love the scriptures so they can provide answers during your teenage years when the climb is steep and scary and risky and you need inspiration as you make important choices every day. As you become more and more familiar with the scriptures, they can eventually become your favorite stories, easy to read; and they will help you have determination to stand firm for righteousness, even when it’s hard.After this conference, will you join with me in making a renewed commitment to increase your scripture study on a regular basis? Will you make a plan to have a set of your own scriptures to keep close and carry with you? Will every one of you within the sound of my voice accept the invitation, the challenge, to make a commitment to read the scriptures this year regularly? If you will do this, I promise you, and bear my witness, that our Father in Heaven will draw near to you because you will be drawing near to Him. (See  We live and will one day die. And when we do, we will know our Savior, for we will have searched the holy scriptures and felt His nearness as He walks with us on our journey home. To this I bear my testimony, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Thank you, girls, for that beautiful song. The words you have just sung remind me of a prayer—and singing hymns is one way for us to pray, one way for us to draw near to our Heavenly Father.Prayer is what I want to talk to you about tonight. Our Heavenly Father has said, “Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you.”  The way to draw near to our Father in Heaven is to speak with him, and this is what we call prayer. We speak with our Father in Heaven in much the way we would speak with our earthly parent, whom we love and honor.Does it frighten you to speak with your Heavenly Father? It shouldn’t. It’s true that he is powerful, more than any of us can even understand. But he also loves us—much more than we can ever know. He knows all about you, knows all of your secrets, all the things you are afraid of, and even more—he knows what you are capable of doing. He knows you even better than you know yourself. He wants what is best for you, and he wants you to be successful and happy in your life. In order for him to help you, he wants you to talk with him often in reverent, humble prayer.Some people say they don’t know how to pray, but there are just four steps to take when you want to talk with your Father in Heaven:The first one is to  Remember who it is with whom you are speaking. We are to come to our Father with humility and meekness, ready to listen as well as to talk. We should always remember that this is our Eternal Father we are speaking with, and so, whenever possible, we kneel. We fold our arms and bow our heads to show him that we have reverence for him. Sometimes it isn’t possible to do these things—not even possible to close our eyes for a moment while we pray. But even in these unusual situations, we can still begin with reverence.I’ll give you some examples. I have prayed silently for help while driving my car—when it would be dangerous to fold my arms, and certainly to close my eyes even for a moment. I sometimes bow my head briefly while I’m at a stop sign. Some people pray while they are walking in the woods or in some other peaceful place. Others pray while they ride in elevators, or on buses, or in school just before a test. The need for prayer can come at any time; when it does, just remember to be reverent—kneel, bow your head, close your eyes whenever you can. Then begin by calling on your Father in Heaven.The second step is to  Remember to thank your Heavenly Father for his blessings. This is a very important step, not just because Heavenly father wants us to be grateful, but because it does so much for us. Most of the time we think of prayer only when we want something; but when we start by expressing gratitude for the things we already have, we begin to see our lives in a new way.I experience this as the Primary general president. My calling is to care not only for the children in our church, but for the children in all of the world. This is a tremendous responsibility, and at first I could feel only the burden of it. But I seek for the Lord’s help constantly. I pray for enough strength and insight to do the work I have been called to do, and for the leaders around the world, that they might have the Spirit of the Lord to help them love and understand the children for whom they are responsible. I plead with Heavenly Father to give each teacher a sense of deep responsibility, so that they might help the children to know the gospel of love. I pray for parents to love and teach their children.Then, just the other morning, I thought, “I have been asking for so much. This morning I am not going to ask for one thing. I’m just going to be grateful.” I knelt and thanked the Lord for my good health, for my understanding husband, for our children, for our missionary son, for the privilege of serving, for the board members and staff who assist me, for stake and ward members throughout the world who are serving, and especially for the teachers who give and care so much. I thanked him for the children everywhere. I thanked him for the prophet. And the list went on. My spirit soared. What an astounding experience to know that I have so much! It takes a grateful heart to experience that soaring, that realization of how much Heavenly Father loves you, how much he does for you.Sometimes being grateful doesn’t come easily. Sometimes when we come to our Heavenly Father we are in such despair that it is hard to think of anything to be grateful for. These are times when prayer is especially important, times when drawing near unto him is essential because we so desperately need him to draw near unto us.My young friends, I want you to know that there is nothing so terrible in your life that you cannot take it to the Lord. Maybe you feel lonely. Perhaps you think there is not one person in the whole world who cares about you, but I promise, Someone does. No matter what, you have a Father who cares, who knows your heart, who is ready to listen anytime. Draw near unto him in prayer; allow him to draw near unto you. Go to him, acknowledge him as your Eternal Father, and be grateful—for life, and for the opportunity to grow, if for nothing else. And then you will be ready for the third step in prayer.The third step is to  Ask for his help, but ask with an open, searching spirit. Plead for guidance to meet the challenges you have been given. Ask, knowing as Nephi did, that “the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.” Part of seeking is to give space for an answer. After you have asked for help, pause and listen. Many times the Lord answers our prayers in a still, small voice. It may be an answer you don’t want to hear. Or you may not recognize what happens to you as an answer to your prayers.I’ll give you an example. Three little boys were flying a kite in a field away from their homes. It began to rain, and they wanted to save their kite. As they hastily pulled it from the sky, it caught on a tree limb high over their heads.They found a long stick and tried to pull it down, but they couldn’t reach it. They tried everything they could think of to get it down, but the kite just turned and twisted in the storm. One of the boys finally said to the others, “I think we should pray.” The other two looked at him, then followed his lead, bowing their heads while he said the words. As they opened their eyes, they saw a car coming toward them down the road that let to the field. As it neared, the boys stood motionless and almost breathless, staring at the lady driving the car.Their stares fascinated the lady, so she stopped and called to them, “Are you having trouble?”“Yes,” they said. “Our kite is caught on the tree. Will you help us get it down?”“I’ll try,” she said. “Stand away while I back up.”She backed her car to position it under the kite, then she got out, climbed on top of the car, and, with the long stick retrieved the kite.When the boy who had offered the prayer carried his kite into the kitchen, he told his mother about the kite’s getting caught in the tree. She asked, “Who helped you get your kite down?”“Heavenly Father,” he replied. The boy, who had prayed with perfect trust, knew the answer to a prayer when he saw it.The fourth and last step to prayer is to close. Remember to offer your prayer in the name of Jesus Christ. He is our emissary, our representative, to the Father. That is why we offer our prayers in his name. It is our acknowledgement of him as our Savior.So these are the four steps of prayer: First,  second,  third,  and fourth,  in the name of Jesus Christ.Your prayer can take many forms. It can be sung in a hymn, or whispered, or even thought. It can be as short as one word—“help!”—or it could be as long as Enos’s prayer that lasted all night and all day.The important thing to remember is to pray often, talk to Heavenly Father, seek his counsel so that he can guide you. When you draw near to Heavenly Father in prayer, he will draw near to you. You need never feel alone again. I testify to this in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.