“And a little child shall lead them.”  Can you imagine the joy our Heavenly Father must feel when we come to him with the tender faith of a little child and accept the love he has for each of us? He wants us to come to him and has promised that he will be there to welcome us. In the Doctrine and Covenants he has said, “Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you.”  This is our invitation from our Father in Heaven to share in the wondrous blessings he has in store for us. He then gives explicit directions on how we can find him: “ me diligently and ye shall find me; and ye shall receive;  and it shall be opened unto you.”  italics added.) With this scriptural instruction, he has outlined the steps we should follow to draw near unto him. We  him by studying the scriptures and listening to his prophets, through which we learn about him and his eternal plan for us. We  through prayer and receive the guidance of his Spirit. And as we  the way is opened for us to gain eternal life and return to the Lord’s presence through obedience to his commandments.Of prayer we may sometimes wonder, “Can our Heavenly Father really hear us? And does he answer prayer?” Many years ago, I learned these few lines:The Savior has promised us, “Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you.” From scripture study we receive further direction concerning the way to draw close to the Lord: “ yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will.”  italics added.)  means to make sacred or holy—to make free from sin, to purify. This we do to be in tune with his Spirit.We are given a guide that regularly reminds us of ways we can remain free from sin and have his Spirit with us. We hear it each time we partake of the sacrament. Listen carefully to the words: “O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and  this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it; that they may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him, and keep his commandments which he hath given them, that they may always have his Spirit to be with them.”  also  italics added.)Verse 1 of section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants is a summation of our opportunities: “Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and  unto me, and  on my name, and  my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am.”  (Italics added.) This is the promise the Lord gives each of you wonderful sisters—as a child, as a youth, as a woman—to draw you heavenward.Seek. Ask. Knock. through the scriptures. through prayer. through obedience.May we attach our efforts to his power. He lives today. We can have his Spirit to be with us.In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.“Draw Near unto Me” was the theme of this year’s General Women’s Meeting held Saturday evening, 28 September 1985. The meeting was broadcast by satellite to meetinghouses throughout the Church, where Latter-day Saint women and girls ten years and older joined with those in the Tabernacle on Temple Square to receive counsel from President Gordon B. Hinckley, Second Counselor in the First Presidency; Elder J. Thomas Fyans, of the Presidency of the First Quorum of the Seventy; Sister Barbara W. Winder, Relief Society General President; Sister Ardeth G. Kapp, Young Women General President; and Sister Dwan J. Young, Primary General President.I am confident there is no one in this vast audience who has not been deeply touched by the things we have seen and heard.I have been impressed with the great burdens which many people carry. There is so much of sorrow in the world. There is so much of pain. There is so much of loneliness and fear and misery. There are so many whose circumstances are desperate and who cry out in deep distress.President Kimball is not with us. I wish he were. What a wonderful man he is. What a wonderful life he has lived. Now he is elderly, trapped by the infirmities of age. But the great, overflowing goodness of his heart is felt by all of us who see him. We bring you his love, his blessing.President Romney celebrated his eighty-eighth birthday only a week ago. He, too, has been touched and bent by the storms of life. He also sends his love to each of you.In behalf of these, our Brethren and leaders, in behalf of the First Presidency of the Church, I thank you, all of you, wherever you may be, you great Latter-day Saint women, both old and young, who look to the Lord and walk in faith and strive to keep his commandments. May your prayers be answered. May you have peace and strength and love and gladness in your lives. I urge you to lift your heads and walk in gratitude. Spare yourselves from the indulgence of self-pity. It is always self-defeating. Subdue the negative and emphasize the positive. Count your blessings and not your problems.Some are prone to complain that you are discriminated against. All of us rejoice in the enlargement of opportunities for women. Under the law, there are few opportunities afforded men that are not now also open to women. With this enlargement of opportunity, a few Latter-day Saint women are asking why they are not entitled to hold the priesthood. To that I can say that only the Lord, through revelation, could alter that situation. He has not done so, so it is profitless for us to speculate and worry about it. May I suggest, rather, that you dwell on the remarkable blessings that are yours, the great positive privileges of your lives as women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the transcendent spiritual gifts that may be yours. I should like to name ten of these, with their coincident responsibilities. I shall have time to comment only briefly on each.God bless you, my beloved sisters. Please know that you are deeply appreciated. Please know that your place in the divine plan is no less important, no less great, and no less necessary than that of men. Paul has said, “Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.” Count your wonderful blessings. Do not worry away your lives with concerns over “rights,” so-called, but move forward, concerned with responsibilities and opportunities. Your potential is limitless. You are daughters of God, endowed by inheritance with marvelous gifts and immeasurable potential. Accept the challenge. Go forward with confidence in the knowledge that the differences you face are not those which come of discrimination so much as those which come of designation. That you may be happy, and that your lives may be rich with that satisfaction which comes from the development of your spiritual gifts, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.