I speak to you tonight on the subject of worthy fathers, worthy sons. The Book of Mormon was meant for us. It was written for our day. Its scriptures are to be likened unto ourselves. (See With that understanding, let us consider from the Book of Mormon the responsibility fathers have to teach their sons, and the responsibility sons have to take direction from their fathers. Since this is a general priesthood meeting, I will speak of fathers and sons. But of course, this counsel also applies to all parents and their children.The opening lines of the Book of Mormon read: “I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father.” Good fathers teach their sons, and good sons listen and obey. Teaching is done by precept and example, and by word and deed. A good model is the best teacher. Therefore, a father’s first responsibility is to set the proper example.Lehi, Nephi’s father, lived an exemplary life. He had a vision in which he “beheld a tree, whose fruit was desirable to make one happy.”  This tree represented the love of God. (See  Lehi partook of its fruit, which “filled [his] soul with exceedingly great joy.”  After he had a personal testimony of its goodness, he took the next step of inviting his family to also partake.Fathers, here is a divine pattern: As the leader of the family, Lehi first taught by example. He led out in righteousness—in conversion to Christ. Then he taught by word, saying, “Believe as I believe.”What then was Nephi’s responsibility after receiving this kind of direction from his father? The Book of Mormon states that Nephi, having heard all the words of his father concerning the things which he saw in vision, was desirous that he might “know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is the gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him.” Nephi had listened to his father, had believed his father, but he wanted to know through the same source his father knew—revelation. Worthy sons are entitled to receive from their Heavenly Father confirmation concerning the direction their mortal father gives them. It takes revelation to perceive revelation. So Nephi diligently sought the Lord and received a revelation which reaffirmed the revelation his father had given to the family.What did the righteous fathers of the Book of Mormon teach their sons? They taught them many things, but the overarching message was “the great plan of the Eternal God”—the Fall, rebirth, Atonement, Resurrection, Judgment, eternal life. (See  Enos said he knew his father was a just man, “for he taught me in his language, and also in the nurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it.” Those in the Book of Mormon who were taught nothing concerning the Lord but only concerning worldly knowledge became a cunning and wicked people. (See All truths are not of the same value. The saving truths of salvation are of greatest worth. These truths the fathers taught plainly, frequently, and fervently. Are we fathers doing likewise?Lehi taught his son Jacob about the sacrifice of the Messiah and the need for “a broken heart and a contrite spirit.” He told his son that there is “opposition in all things” and that men are “free to choose liberty and eternal life” through the Lord or “captivity and death” through the devil, who desires all men to “be miserable like unto himself.” Repetition is a key to learning. Our sons need to hear the truth repeated, especially because there is so much falsehood abroad. Devoted Book of Mormon fathers constantly reminded their sons of saving truths. “O remember, remember, my sons, the words which king Benjamin spake unto his people,” said Helaman. “Yea, remember that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ.”  “My sons, remember, remember,” Helaman continued, “that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation.” In the Book of Mormon, faithful fathers constantly bore their testimonies to their sons. “Remember that these sayings are true, and also that these records are true,” King Benjamin testified to his sons.  Alma bore witness to his son Helaman saying, “I do know; and the knowledge which I have is of God.” Great family legacies are kept alive in the Book of Mormon. Alma taught Helaman about how he had heard Helaman’s grandfather prophesy. (See King Benjamin caused that his three sons “should be taught in all the language of his fathers.”  They needed to understand and use the language of holy writ. If they didn’t know the right words, they wouldn’t know the plan. The Mulekites had no scriptures, and their language and faith became corrupted. (See In the Book of Mormon, loving fathers commended their sons when they deserved it. Alma complimented Shiblon, saying, “You have commenced in your youth to look to the Lord.”  Mormon told his son Moroni, “I recommend thee unto God.”  Our sons need to be encouraged in their righteous endeavors.If their sons strayed, stalwart Book of Mormon fathers still continued to teach them. Lehi exhorted two wayward sons with “all the feeling of a tender parent, that they would hearken to his words.”  He preached to them and bade them keep the commandments of God. (See Alma reproved his son Corianton for his immoral behavior. This loving father said that it was no excuse that many others were also guilty. (See  Alma told Corianton frankly that his conduct made it so that some people would not believe Alma’s words. (See  Alma then taught him the principle that “wickedness never was happiness.” Why did righteous fathers in the Book of Mormon go to so much trouble to teach their sons the word of God? King Benjamin said it was to fulfill the commandments of God. (See  He further stated that were it not for their having the brass plates which contained the commandments, they would have “suffered in ignorance.”  Could the lack of teaching the scriptures in our homes be a source of our suffering in ignorance today?As the brass plates blessed Lehi and his descendants, so our scriptures should bless us. “And now, my sons,” said King Benjamin, “I would that ye should remember to search them diligently, that ye may profit thereby; and I would that ye should keep the commandments of God.”  In other words, first read them, then heed them.At what age do we begin teaching our sons these gospel truths? Alma taught his son Helaman while he was in his youth. (See  Our youth ought not to wait until the mission field to get a grasp of the scriptures and a closeness to the Lord. Lehi said that his son Jacob beheld the glory of the Lord in his youth. (See  Imagine what would happen to missionary work if we sent out that kind of young men.How often should fathers teach these truths to their sons? King Benjamin speaks of having the commandments “always before our eyes.” Enos describes the beginning of a great spiritual experience that happened to him this way: “Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart”  Note the phrase, “I had often heard my father speak.”In summary, the Book of Mormon, which is the most correct book on earth, demonstrates that the major responsibility for teaching our sons the great plan of the Eternal Father—the Fall, rebirth, Atonement, Resurrection, Judgment, eternal life—rests with fathers. It should be done individually as well as in the family. It should be preached and discussed so our children will know the commandments. It should be done from their youth up—and often.May we fathers teach our sons as the exemplary Book of Mormon fathers taught their sons. And may our sons, like Nephi, listen and obey, knowing that because of those teachings they too were born of goodly parents, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Driving on the modern freeways during the sunshine of summer is often a pleasant experience. Frequently, one can view the grandeur of majestic mountains and the mesmerizing surf of the sea all in a single drive. However, when the traffic is heavy, the mountains and seas are set aside, and concentration is focused on the car ahead. Such was the occasion when I read with keen interest the words of a bumper sticker readily visible on the highly polished chrome bumper of a car which was weaving in and out of the traffic stream. The words were these: “Honk if you love Jesus.” No one honked. Perhaps each was disturbed by the thoughtless and rude actions of the offending driver. Then, again, would honking be an appropriate manner in which to show one’s love for the Son of God, the Savior of the world, the Redeemer of all mankind? Such was not the pattern provided by Jesus of Nazareth.The importance of demonstrating daily a true and an abiding love was convincingly taught by the Master when the inquiring lawyer stepped forward and boldly asked him, “Master, which is the great commandment in the law?”Matthew records that “Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.“This is the first and great commandment.“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” Mark concludes the account with the Savior’s statement, “There is none other commandment greater than these.” His answer could not be faulted. His very actions gave credence to His words. He demonstrated genuine love of God by living the perfect life, by honoring the sacred mission that was His. Never was He haughty. Never was He puffed up with pride. Never was He disloyal. Ever was He humble. Ever was He sincere. Ever was He true.Though He was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by that master of deceit, even the devil; though He was physically weakened from fasting forty days and forty nights and was an hungered; yet when the evil one proffered Jesus the most alluring and tempting proposals, He gave to us a divine example of true love of God by refusing to deviate from what He knew was right. (See Jesus, throughout His ministry, blessed the sick, restored sight to the blind, made the deaf to hear and the maimed to walk. He taught forgiveness by forgiving. He taught compassion by being compassionate. He taught devotion by giving of Himself. Jesus taught by example.As we survey the life of our Lord, each of us could echo the words of the well-known hymn:To demonstrate our gratitude, is it required that we, too, lay down our lives as did He? Some have.In the beautiful city of Melbourne, Australia, there is situated in an impressive setting a historic war memorial. As one walks through the memorial’s silent corridors, one sees tablets of marble that note the deeds of valor and acts of courage of those who made the supreme sacrifice. One can almost hear the roar of the cannon, the scream of the rocket, the cry of the wounded. One can feel the exhilaration of victory and, at the same time, sense the despair of defeat.In the center of the main hall, inscribed for all to see, is the message of the memorial. The skylight overhead permits easy reading. The words almost stand up and speak: “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.” Today, the challenge which we face and must meet is not that we should go forth on the battlefield of war and lay down our lives. Rather, it is that we, on the battlefield of life, so live and serve that our lives and actions reflect a true love of God, of His Son, Jesus Christ, and of our fellowmen. This is not accomplished by clever signs printed on bumper stickers affixed to automobiles.Jesus teaches us: “If ye love me, keep my commandments. …“He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.” Years ago we danced to a popular song, the words of which were, “It’s easy to say I love you, easy to say I’ll be true, easy to say these simple things, but prove it by the things you do.”From our lessons learned in Primary we remember the poem entitled “Which Loved Best?”Years pass. Childhood vanishes. Truth remains. The transition from Primary’s poems to today’s truths is not difficult. True love continues to be an outward expression of an inward conviction.Today, on a gentle rise in the historic city of Freiberg, German Democratic Republic, there stands a beautiful, dedicated temple of God. The temple provides the ultimate—even the eternal—blessings of a loving Heavenly Father to His faithful Saints.Ten years ago, on a Sunday morning, April 27, 1975, I stood on an outcropping of rock situated between the cities of Dresden and Meissen, high above the Elbe River. I responded to the promptings of the Holy Spirit and offered a prayer of dedication on that land and its people. That prayer noted the faith of the members. It emphasized the tender feelings of many hearts filled with an overwhelming desire to obtain temple blessings. A plea for peace was expressed. Divine help was requested. I voiced the words, “Dear Father, let this be the beginning of a new day for the members of Thy church in this land.”Suddenly, from far below in the valley, a bell in a church steeple began to chime and the shrill crow of a rooster broke the morning silence, each heralding the commencement of a new day. Though my eyes were closed, I felt a warmth from the sun’s rays reaching my face, my hands, my arms. How could this be? An incessant rain had been falling all morning. At the conclusion of the prayer, I gazed heavenward. I noted a ray of sunshine which penetrated an opening in the heavy clouds, a ray which engulfed the spot where our small group stood. From that moment I knew divine help was at hand.Full cooperation of government officials was forthcoming. President Spencer W. Kimball and his counselors provided enthusiastic approval. A temple was planned, a site selected, ground-breaking services held, and construction commenced. At the time of dedication, the attention of the international press was focused on this temple in its unusual setting. Words like “How?” and “Why?” were voiced frequently. This was particularly in evidence during the public open house, when 89,872 persons visited the temple. At times the waiting period stretched to three hours, occasionally in the rain. None wavered. All were shown God’s house.During the actual dedicatory services when President Gordon B. Hinckley offered the dedicatory prayer, hymns of praise, testimonies of truth, tears of gratitude, and prayers of thanksgiving marked the historic event. To understand  to comprehend  it is necessary to know the faith, the devotion, the love of the members of the Church in that nation. Though fewer than five thousand in number, the activity levels exceed those found anywhere else in the world.During the many years I have served on assignment in that area, I have noted the absence of spacious chapels with multiple teaching stations and grounds featuring the greenery of lawns and the blossoms of flowers. The meetinghouse libraries, as well as the personal libraries of our members, consist only of the standard works, a hymnbook, and one or two other volumes. These books do not remain on bookcase shelves. Their teachings are engraved on the hearts of members. They are displayed in their daily lives. Service is a privilege. A branch president, forty-two years of age, has served in his calling for twenty-one years—half his life. Never a complaint—just gratitude. In Leipzig, when the meetinghouse furnace failed one cold winter day, the meetings were not dismissed. Rather, the members met in the chill of the unheated building, sitting shoulder to shoulder, wearing their coats, singing the hymns of Zion and worshiping Him who counseled, “Be not weary in well doing,” “Follow me,” “Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers.”   The Apostle Paul taught the Corinthians, “If any man love God, the same is known of him.”  The love which these faithful members have for God, for His Son, Jesus Christ, and for His everlasting gospel is confirmed by their very lives. It is reminiscent of the love demonstrated by the brother of Jared as described in the Book of Mormon. The blessings of a loving, caring, and just Heavenly Father simply could not be withheld. Faith preceded the miracle. Eternal ordinances are now performed. Everlasting covenants are now made. The love of God has again blessed His people.For those who love Jesus, these prophetic words have sublime meaning:“Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior.“Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways. …“His purposes fail not. …“For thus saith the Lord—I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end.“Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory.” Such is the blessing reserved for those who love Jesus. May each of us qualify for this great reward, this eternal glory, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, whom I love and of whom I testify, amen.