My message this morning concerns the search for the abundant life. Without wishing to give any offense, I would sincerely like to try and relate this search to everyone, including those Church members and others who consider themselves to be “loving critics” of the Church. I do so, not out of fear that any criticism or opposition might injure the Church, but rather out of a sincere spiritual concern for the critics themselves. Criticism can be helpful if it is properly motivated and if it reaches those who make the decisions, but it is often a symptom of a problem with which the critics themselves are struggling. I believe those who find fault would be surprised at how often the leadership of the Church prays for them. It is in that spirit I would like to speak today.President Gordon B. Hinckley reminded us, “As a Church, we encourage gospel scholarship and the search to understand all truth. Fundamental to our theology is belief in individual freedom of inquiry, thought, and expression. Constructive discussion is a privilege of every Latter-day Saint.” ( Sept. 1985, p. 5.)The Savior said, “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.”  How is the abundant life to be obtained? The abundant life involves an endless search for knowledge, light, and truth. President Hugh B. Brown said: “God desires that we learn and continue to learn, but this involves some unlearning. As Uncle Zeke said: ‘It ain’t my ignorance that done me up but what I know’d that wasn’t so.’ The ultimate evil is the closing of the mind or steeling it against truth, resulting in the hardening of intellectual arteries” (in baccalaureate address, Utah State University, Logan, Utah, 4 June 1965.)We gain knowledge from two sources. One is the divine and the other is secular. Rex E. Lee has referred to them as the “rational process and the extrarational process” (In , Provo: Brigham Young University, 1982, p. 131.) We are all more familiar with the rational process that we learned in school and through lifelong study. The extrarational, or divine source, is less common. This source is, however, more sure. Both sources may be available to us. Fortunately, we do not have to choose one to the exclusion of the other. Brother Lee continues, “We should feel equally at home in the academy and in the temple. We should regard each as a center of learning.” ( p. 132.)We are apparently part of an expanding universe. Secular knowledge is expanding very rapidly. Our knowledge of gospel truth is also expanding. Prophets continue to speak. Increased understanding of the scriptures is also possible. And so the opportunities for the abundant life increase as we pursue the quest for truth and knowledge.In the infinite process of accepting and rejecting information in the search for light, truth, and knowledge, almost everyone may have at one time or another some private questions. That is part of the learning process. Many are like the biblical father of the child with the “dumb spirit” who pleaded with the Savior: “Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.” The Church has not and, in my opinion, should not speak on every disputed question. But I cannot help wondering if a member of the Church does not place himself in some spiritual peril when publicly disparaging the prophetic calling of Joseph Smith, or his successors, or any of the fundamental, settled doctrines of the Church.When a member expresses his private doubts or unbelief as a public chastisement of the leadership or the doctrine of the Church, or as a confrontation with those also seeking eternal light, he has entered upon sacred ground. Those who complain about the doctrine or leadership of the Church but who lack the faith or desire to keep God’s commandments risk separating themselves from the divine source of learning. They do not enjoy the same richness of the Spirit that they might enjoy if they proved their sincere love of God by walking humbly before Him, by keeping His commandments, and by sustaining those He has appointed to lead the Church.Some of those who now criticize and find fault have, in the past, felt the peaceful, spiritually settling comfort enjoyed by those in full harmony with the gospel as restored by Joseph Smith. They may also have been lost and forgotten by those who should be more caring.No stone wall separates the members of the Church from all of the seductions of the world. Members of the Church, like everyone else, are being surfeited with deceptions, challenges, and temptations. However, to those of enduring faith, judgment, and discernment, there is an invisible wall which they choose never to breach. Those on the safe side of this invisible wall are filled with humility, not servitude. They willingly accept the supremacy of God and rely upon the scriptures and counsel of His servants, the leaders of the Church. These leaders of the Church are men with human frailties, and are imperfect in their wisdom and judgment. Perfection in men is not found on the earth. But almost without exception these leaders sincerely, humbly, and prayerfully render great and dedicated Christian service to the best of their ability. More important, they hold a divine warrant and commission through which great and eternal blessings come to those who sustain and follow them. They are God’s servants.To what should we subscribe to be correct and sound in doctrine? What are the absolutes upon which faithful membership is based? In my opinion, they rest upon the following:First, the fatherhood of God, the Eternal Father.Second, the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world.Third, the mission of Joseph Smith as a prophet of God and the restorer of the fulness of the gospel.Fourth, the unbroken succession of priesthood line and authority from Joseph Smith to President Spencer W. Kimball, who is the prophet, seer, and revelator on the earth today.A few may lack understanding of the real commitment of the faithful. For instance, a critic recently wrote that obedience to commandments such as tithing is mandatory. In order to claim certain blessings, obedience is certainly obligatory, but compliance is never mandatory—that is, forced. Nothing is mandatory in this church. Free agency is a cardinal principle of obedience. Obedience comes from love of God and a commitment to his work. The only punishment for serious transgression or apostasy is the removal of members from the society and fellowship of the Church. (See Is personal self-sufficiency one of the reasons men and women may lack faith? Some seem afraid to look to any source of wisdom and knowledge above themselves. They rely only on the secular source of learning.A small number may claim fealty and loyalty to the Church but think it smart, sophisticated, or trendy to be a little rebellious, a little bit independent, and to disparage some of the traditional doctrines handed down by the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors. This may result from a lack of divine knowledge. When I was a boy, one frequently maligned doctrine was the Word of Wisdom. Some took offense when Church leaders taught it. Now scientific proof, unknown in my youth, has established the Word of Wisdom to be a great law of physical health, even though, in my opinion, its greatest benefits are spiritual.I have heard some say, “Well, I can believe all of the revelations but one.” It is hard to understand this logic. If one believes that revelations come from a divine source, how can one pick and choose? Acceptance of the gospel should be complete and absolute, with full heart and soul.Some want to justify their criticism by claiming, “But it is the truth.” My answer is, “How can you be so sure?” Spiritual truth must be bonded to faith and righteousness to be fully understood. The Apostle Paul reminded us that the misuse of the truth changes it into a lie. (See Since the beginning of the restored Church there have been much opposition and many critics both from within and without. What have been the results of all this opposition and criticism? Some of the spiritually immature, the weak, and incredulous have dropped out. The Church itself, however, not only survives, but it grows and strengthens. In some respects nothing in the world is equal to this work. Despite the many challenges of great growth there are indications of increased faith over much of the earth. For instance, never in the history of the world have so many temples been built.I do not believe this work will be stopped or seriously injured by its detractors. There are many prophetic statements to the contrary. History has proven quite conclusively that the Church has grown under persecution; it has prospered under criticism. By finding fault with the doctrines, practices, or the leadership of the Church, one can waste much time and effort in a fruitless endeavor. Those who have been washed in the waters of baptism put their eternal soul at risk by carelessly pursuing only the secular source of learning. We believe that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the fulness of the gospel of Christ, which gospel is the essence of truth and eternal enlightenment. We hold that the great legacy of this church is that it possesses the only full means for eternal life.Who is to declare the doctrine of the Church? It is well established by revelation and practice that the current President of the Church and his counselors have the keys to declare the doctrine of the Church. The investiture of this authority comes from revelation. The Presidency are constituted “a quorum … to receive the oracles for the whole church.”  Of this authority, President Stephen L Richards stated: “They [the Presidency] are the supreme court here on earth in the interpretation of God’s law.“In the exercise of their functions and delegated powers they are controlled by a constitution, a part of which is written and a part of which is not. The written part consists in authenticated scripture, ancient and modern, and in the recorded utterances of our latter-day prophets. The unwritten part is the spirit of revelation and divine inspiration which are pertinent to their calling.“In formulating their interpretations and decisions they always confer with the Council of the Twelve Apostles who by revelation are appointed to assist and act with them in the government of the Church. When, therefore, a judgment is reached and proclaimed by these officers, it becomes binding upon all members of the Church, individual views to the contrary notwithstanding. God’s Kingdom is a kingdom of law and order.” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1938, pp. 115–16.)We do not wish any who have questions to prove that they are sincere in their feelings by leaving the Church. That is not what we want. We hope that their sincerity would be manifested rather by building upon those feelings that have kept them in the Church. Their faith can be strengthened by following their intuitive judgment and the purest and noblest feelings of their own souls. By looking to a source higher than themselves, they can receive answers to their questions from the divine source. If there have been some mistakes, there is a way back. The doors are wide open; welcoming arms are outstretched. There is a place for all; there is a contribution for each to make.In the spirit of Wilford Woodruff’s letter to Lyman Wight, an Apostle who became separated from the leadership of the Church, we say to all: “Come home to Zion, mingle in our midst, confess and forsake your sins, and do right, as … all men have to do, in order to enjoy the favor of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and have fellowship with the Saints. … We all feel interested in your welfare; you have no enemies here; the longer you stay away from us, the more alienated your feelings become.” (Quoted in Ronald G. Watt, “A Dialogue between Wilford Woodruff and Lyman Wight,”  Autumn 1976, p. 113.)The leadership of the Church will continue to pray for its critics, its enemies, and those who seek to do it harm.I believe that few things in life deserve one’s complete confidence. I testify that the Church is worthy of our full trust. There is no inconsistency between truth and faith. I know that everyone who sincerely and righteously seeks to know this can have it spiritually confirmed. May we open up our minds, hearts, and spirits to the divine source of truth. May we reach above ourselves and beyond our mundane concerns and become heirs to the knowledge of all truth and to the abundant life promised by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I pray that this may be so, in His holy name, amen.“What think ye of Christ?”  That question, posed by our Lord, has challenged the world for centuries.Fortunately for us, God has provided modern scripture, another testament, even the Book of Mormon, for the convincing of the world that Jesus is the Christ. Anyone who will read the Book of Mormon and put it to the divine test that Moroni proposes (see  can be convinced that Jesus is the Christ. Once that conviction is gained, then comes the question “Will we choose to follow Him?” The devils believe that Jesus is the Christ, but they choose to follow Lucifer. (See  Throughout the ages prophets have exhorted the people to make up their minds. “Choose you this day whom ye will serve,” pled Joshua Elijah thundered, “How long halt ye between two opinions? if the Lord be God, follow him.” When you choose to follow Christ, you choose the Way, the Truth, the Life—the right way, the saving truth, the abundant life. (See “I would commend you to seek this Jesus,” states Moroni. When you choose to follow Christ, you choose to be changed.“No man,” said President David O. McKay, “can sincerely resolve to apply in his daily life the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth without sensing a change in his own nature. The phrase ‘born again’ has a deeper significance than many people attach to it. This  may be indescribable, ” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1962, p. 7.)Can human hearts be changed? Why, of course! It happens every day in the great missionary work of the Church. It is one of the most widespread of Christ’s modern miracles. If it hasn’t happened to you—it should.Our Lord told Nicodemus that “except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”  Of these words President Kimball said, “This is the simple total answer to the weightiest of all questions. … To gain eternal life there must be a rebirth, a transformation.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1958, p. 14.)President McKay said that Christ called for “an entire revolution” of Nicodemus’s “inner man.” “His manner of thinking, feeling, and acting with reference to spiritual things would have to undergo a fundamental and permanent change.” (In Conference Report, Apr. 1960, p. 26.)Besides the physical ordinance of baptism and the laying on of hands, one must be spiritually born again to gain exaltation and eternal life.Alma states: “And the Lord said unto me; Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men and women, all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again; yea, born of God, changed from their carnal and fallen state, to a state of righteousness, being redeemed of God, becoming his sons and daughters;“And thus they become new creatures; and unless they do this, they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.” The “change of heart” and “born again” processes are best described in the keystone of our religion, the Book of Mormon.Those who had been born of God after hearing King Benjamin’s address had a mighty change in their hearts. They had “no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually.” (See The fourth chapter of Alma describes a period in Nephite history when “the church began to fail in its progress.”  Alma met this challenge by resigning his seat as chief judge in government “and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood” responsibility which was his. He bore “down in pure testimony” against the people (see  and in the fifth chapter of Alma he asks over forty crucial questions.Speaking frankly to the members of the Church, he declared, “I ask of you, my brethren of the church, have ye spiritually been born of God? Have ye received his image in your countenances? Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?” He continued, “If ye have experienced a change of heart, and if ye have felt to sing the song of redeeming love, I would ask, can ye feel so now?” Would not the progress of the Church increase dramatically today with an increasing number of those who are spiritually reborn? Can you imagine what would happen in our homes? Can you imagine what would happen with an increasing number of copies of the Book of Mormon in the hands of an increasing number of missionaries who know how to use it and who have been born of God? When this happens, we will get the harvest President Kimball envisions. It was the “born of God” Alma who as a missionary was so able to impart the word that many others were also born of God. (See The Lord works from the inside out. The world works from the outside in. The world would take people out of the slums. Christ takes the slums out of people, and then they take themselves out of the slums. The world would mold men by changing their environment. Christ changes men, who then change their environment. The world would shape human behavior, but Christ can change human nature.“Human nature  be changed, here and now,” said President McKay, and then he quoted the following:“‘You can change human nature. No man who has felt in him the Spirit of Christ even for half a minute can deny this truth. …“‘You do change human nature, your own human nature, if you surrender it to Christ. Human nature can be changed here and now. Human nature has been changed in the past. Human nature must be changed on an enormous scale in the future, unless the world is to be drowned in its own blood. And only Christ can change it.“‘Twelve men did quite a lot to change the world [nineteen hundred] years ago. Twelve simple men.’” (Quoting Beverly Nichols, in  comp. Llewelyn R. McKay, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book, 1971, pp. 23, 127.)Yes, Christ changes men, and changed men can change the world.Men changed for Christ will be captained by Christ. Like Paul they will be asking, “Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?”  Peter stated, they will “follow his steps.”  John said they will “walk, even as he walked.” Finally, men captained by Christ will be consumed in Christ. To paraphrase President Harold B. Lee, they set fire in others because they are on fire. ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1974, p. 192.)Their will is swallowed up in His will. (See They do always those things that please the Lord. (See Not only would they die for the Lord, but more important they want to live for Him.Enter their homes, and the pictures on their walls, the books on their shelves, the music in the air, their words and acts reveal them as Christians.They stand as witnesses of God at all times, and in all things, and in all places. (See They have Christ on their minds, as they look unto Him in every thought. (See They have Christ in their hearts as their affections are placed on Him forever. (See Almost every week they partake of the sacrament and witness anew to their Eternal Father that they are willing to take upon them the name of His Son, always remember Him, and keep His commandments. (See In Book of Mormon language, they “feast upon the words of Christ”  “talk of Christ”  “rejoice in Christ”  “are made alive in Christ”  and “glory in [their] Jesus” In short, they lose themselves in the Lord, and find eternal life. (See President David O. McKay tells of a singular event that happened to him. After falling asleep, he said he “beheld in vision something infinitely sublime.” He saw a beautiful city, a great concourse of people dressed in white, and the Savior.“The city, I understood, was his. It was the City Eternal; and the people following him were to abide there in peace and eternal happiness.“But who were they?“As if the Savior read my thoughts, he answered by pointing to a semicircle that then appeared above them, and on which were written in gold the words:““When I awoke, it was breaking day.” ( comp. Clare Middlemiss, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1976, pp. 59–60.)When we awake and are born of God, a new day will break and Zion will be redeemed.May we be convinced that Jesus is the Christ, choose to follow Him, be changed for Him, captained by Him, consumed in Him, and born again I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.