My beloved brethren and sisters, in all humility and gratitude I ask for your prayers and your faith in this great and humbling and sacred assignment that has been given me. To our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, and to President Ezra Taft Benson, our prophet, seer, and revelator, I pledge that I will do my best, that I will do all I can to build up the kingdom of God here upon the earth.As I left President Benson’s office Friday, I was in deep shock—and I still am. I suppose that will linger for many years, but I will put forth my best effort in whatever assignment is given me.I pay tribute to my beloved earthly father, who taught me humility, diligence, honesty, trustworthiness, a love of the Constitution of our beloved country, and reverence and honor for God’s chosen servants, especially our prophet.To my mother, who saw a glimpse of eternity several nights prior to her passing, I pay tribute also—first for life itself, and then for the great lessons she taught me. She would never permit a shoddy performance, and she made sure that we children didn’t take too long accomplishing our tasks.I also pay tribute to my beloved wife, Elisa. She is similar, I’m sure, to Rebecca of old. If she had been one of our pioneers, perhaps even coming from New York with a handcart, she probably would have been one of the first to arrive. She has never put as much as a feather in the way of my Church service, and she has reared our children in truth and righteousness.To our eight children, seven wonderful daughters and one noble son—and he got along very well with his sisters—I pay tribute to them. Each has had his or her marriage sealed in the temple.To my associates through the years, I pay tribute. They have all lifted me up and made me a better servant. Their names are too numerous to mention, but I honor them and pray that the Lord will always bless them.I’ve loved every assignment I’ve ever had in the kingdom. And in that service, every day seemed like Sunday, because it was in the service of the Lord.I would like to report briefly on our experience in Europe. I thank the First Presidency that Sister Wirthlin and I have had the opportunity to preside in the Europe Area of the Church. These past two years have been thrilling and have been filled with tremendous experiences that we will never forget. The following expression from a devoted Church member living in Eastern Europe vividly demonstrates what I mean:“If you could only see the faith and enthusiasm of our members here. Believe me, our religion is the only thing left for us, and we dearly love it.”Whether we live in Eastern Europe or not, this truth, like a towering mountain, stands out. Our religion is really the only thing we will have left ultimately, and we must love it dearly.This eternal truth was demonstrated many times during our two-year sojourn in the Europe Area. This area stretches from the far north of Finland, Sweden, and Norway to the southernmost tip of Africa and includes about 230,000 members of the Church. I would like to share a few of the experiences that have kept our faith burning brightly.In Portugal, in the city of Funchal, on the Madeira Island, lived a lady named Asencão Frango who had been a nun for twenty years. As a matter of fact, she was a Mother Superior at a home for poor children and orphans. Toward the end of a four-year teaching assignment early in her life as a nun, doctors discovered a cancer in her throat. Her mother had died of this same disease. Although she knew that her deteriorating health might lead to certain death, she had a strong feeling that she had not finished her work on earth. She prayed with great faith for the restoration of her health and was healed, with no further problems or need for medical care.When her church decided to close the children’s home where she was assigned, she maintained it herself for four years, using an inheritance she had received from her deceased parents, until the children living there were raised and on their own or were adopted.Hearing of a new religion, she attended her first meeting of our church with a friend, out of curiosity. It was held on the dirt floor of a member’s garage, but the spirit of the meeting impressed her. The elders began teaching her the discussions and challenged her to be baptized. She declined, saying that she already had been baptized. The elders persisted by inviting her to read the Book of Mormon. The elders told her, “If this book is the true word of God, then Joseph Smith is a true prophet and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is true. If so, you need to be baptized into God’s true church.”She read the Book of Mormon and gained a strong testimony of its divinity. Later, she stopped the missionaries after a discussion of the Godhead and requested baptism. Just one year afterward, she stood on the doorstep of President Reuben P. Ficklin’s mission home in Lisbon. She obtained her temple recommend and could hardly wait to enter the Swiss Temple to pledge sacred covenants with her Heavenly Father.In Sweden, Bishop Krister Stendahl of the Lutheran church visited the Stockholm Temple a few days prior to its dedication. He had this inspiring description of his experience, as published in a prominent Swedish newspaper:“Imagine that a new, gleaming white temple with slender pinnacles and towers has been erected to the glory of God. Not a church, not a chapel, but a  for sacred ordinances, performed quietly and in solemn dignity.“A temple where the innermost room is named ‘the celestial.’ A temple where the faithful perform vicarious work according to Paul’s statement on baptism for the dead “All in consequence of the wisdom and calling of Joseph Smith. …“What shall we think and say about this? To pretend that it does not concern us that the Mormons—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—have built a temple in our midst would be conceited or condescending.“Therefore I will rejoice with them over this temple that they have erected with much sacrifice to the glory of God. To experience their joy and pride over the beauty of the temple warms one’s heart in a special way” ( 11 July 1985, p. 1).President Thomas S. Monson has given me permission to share with you his impressions when he rededicated the German Democratic Republic for the advancement of the work of the Church:“At 7:30  [April 27, 1975, we traveled to] the location which had been selected for the special prayer which I felt prompted to offer in this land. … We walked through the woods … into a clearing overlooking the Elbe River, with Meissen on the right and Dresden on the left, Meissen being the birthplace of Karl G. Maeser, the founder of Brigham Young University. … During the prayer, I said, ‘Today marks the dawning of a new beginning for this beautiful land.’ As I used these words, we heard the unmistakable sound of a rooster crowing, followed by the pealing of a cathedral bell in the distance. The day had been overcast, but during the prayer the sun shone brilliantly upon us, warming our bodies and giving us the assurance that our Heavenly Father was pleased with the prayer which was being offered. … As we returned to our automobiles, the sun disappeared from the sky and the overcast condition which previously existed once again prevailed” (personal journal of Thomas S. Monson).In his prayer of rededication, President Monson said: “Heavenly Father, wilt Thou open up the way that the faithful may be accorded the privilege of going to Thy holy temple, there to receive their holy endowments and to be sealed as families for time and all eternity” (journal of Thomas S. Monson).This prayer was offered on Sunday, April 27, 1975, at a time when any thought of a temple was beyond the realm of possibility. It was fulfilled on June 29, 1985, with the dedication of the beautiful temple in Freiberg, GDR.As you know, temples are now or soon will be within the reach of many members in the Europe Area, from the Stockholm Sweden Temple in the north to the Johannesburg South Africa Temple to the south, with the London and Swiss temples in between. Many lands in the Europe Area are becoming the lands of temples. The Frankfurt Temple, located in a suburb named Friedricksdorf, which was an early settlement of the Huguenots, is nearing completion. The building of these temples in the Europe Area is a modern-day miracle. Temple work is proceeding at an accelerating pace.We traveled to Ghana in West Africa. There the Church is growing rapidly and is on very solid footing. We traveled along the beautiful coast to a chapel that recently had been completed. After holding a meeting there, we traveled through the village of Cape Coast with President and Sister Ernest J. Miller.As the sun was setting, we saw a large crowd of villagers. Young, old, and middle-aged all were pulling on a huge net and drawing it out of the water. We stopped and inquired about what they were doing. They were pulling in the fish caught that day. In the net were large and small fish of many kinds. Each villager put his hands to the net to help bring in the catch. The thought ran through my mind of the gathering of Israel in the last days as referred to in Jeremiah. The Lord said, “I will send for many fishers … and they shall fish them” That, brethren and sisters, is the mission of all of us as members of the Church: to put our hands on the net and pull in thousands of fine men and women who are searching for the truth. With this kind of effort, the Europe Area has pulled in these nets of converts, with a 33 percent increase in the number of convert baptisms in two years.As I reflected upon our experiences in Europe, these thoughts impressed me. The gospel of Jesus Christ is more enduring than fame, more precious than riches, more to be desired than happiness. Understanding and living the gospel leads to the possession of a Christlike character. The aim of each of us is to live a great and exemplary life. A noble character is needed especially in this age when evil is rampant. I should like to caution our youth to live the gospel, develop strong character, and not indulge in those things that deviate from righteousness.Our Heavenly Father has endowed us with hearts of courage and faith, with strong wills, and with the ability to understand and to see clearly the difference between right and wrong. He has mercifully clothed us, each member, with the gift of the Holy Ghost, which gives us insight and personal power.And so, even though the tasks of life become heavy, and although sorrow thrusts a drooping burden upon us, the light that emanates from our Savior beckons us on, undismayed. A righteous self-discipline can and will rule our lives.In closing, brothers and sisters, I want to say that this is the way we tried to represent the Church in Europe. I testify that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that President Ezra Taft Benson is our prophet, seer, and revelator, and that he bears the keys of the kingdom. I love this church with all my heart and will do my best to serve, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The holy scriptures represent mankind’s spiritual memory. And when man’s connection with scripture is severed, mortals are tragically deprived of an awareness of spiritual history, blinding the eyes of faith. Thereby shorn of true identity, mortals keep their legs intact, but each walks in his own way. Their arms are acquisitive, but do not reach out in an understanding embrace of life. Their ears function, but they no longer hear the word of the Lord. Though created in God’s image, those thus severed soon forget their Maker. Yet it is not surprising, “For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents of his heart?” By contrast, one of the unique features of the living church of Jesus Christ is its ever-expanding body of fundamental spiritual knowledge about man’s identity and purpose, which enlarges “the memory of this people”  In fact, our ninth article of faith declares that God “will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.”  Thus nourished by a menu blending antiquity and futurity, Church members need never “faint in [their] minds”  Instead, we can be intellectually vibrant.Lost books are among the treasures yet to come forth. Over twenty of these are mentioned in the existing scriptures. Perhaps most startling and voluminous will be the records of the lost tribes of Israel (see  We would not even know of the impending third witness for Christ except through the precious Book of Mormon, the second witness for Christ! This third set of sacred records will thus complete a triad of truth. Then, just as the Perfect Shepherd has said, “My word also shall be gathered in one”  There will be “one fold and one shepherd”  in a welding together of all the Christian dispensations of human history (see Whereas previous prophets were sometimes left to surmise—as Moroni supposed the Jews also had a record of the Creation from Adam on down (see ours, instead, is a time of fulness, including “things which never have been revealed from the foundation of the world”  Moreover, “and the day cometh that the words of the book which were sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth”  see also    Thus, just as there will be many more Church members, families, wards, stakes, and temples—later on, there will also be many more nourishing and inspiring scriptures. However, we must first feast worthily upon that which we already have!Without this precious, spiritual perspective, the human family is seldom more than one generation away from deep doubt and even disbelief. Laman and Lemuel doubted and murmured because, wrote Nephi, “they knew not the dealings of that God who had created them”  they were provincial, just like forgetful Israel: “and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel”  see also  If people are without the truths of God’s plan of salvation for very long, some may not even “believe [these truths] when they are taught”  An untaught “rising generation” comes not to “believe … concerning the resurrection, … neither … the coming of Christ”  Belief in Deity and in the resurrection are usually the first to go: “they had brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their Creator” Our loving Father is ever anxious to dispel such ignorance:“And after God had appointed that these things should come unto man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man should know concerning the things whereof he had appointed unto them;“Therefore he sent angels to converse with them. …“… And made known unto them the plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation of the world; and this he made known unto them according to their faith and repentance and their holy works” The message is ever constant and ever relevant:“Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children?“Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming?” Today’s mortals, born long “after the time of his [first] coming,” surely need to know of the plan, which gives, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, “a comprehensive view of our condition and true relation to God.” The Prophet said this subject should be studied “more than any other, … day and night” ( sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 324).God’s plan, however, is not something to be deduced by logic alone, nor is human experience deep enough or long enough to inform us adequately. It requires revelation from God.“Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord. How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways. And no man knoweth of his ways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of God” How else would we really know the truth of who we really were, “really are, and … really will be” (see   There can be no true felicity without true identity.Therefore, the process of revelation typically involves angels and prophets (see  Several times in the closing period of his life, Joseph Smith noted the fourteen years of particularly intensive revelation which he had experienced, including angelic visitations (see  pp. 349, 360;  comp. Dean C. Jessee, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1984, p. 407).The Restoration’s Messiah-centered scriptures expand mankind’s spiritual memory significantly and further educate us concerning the unfolding of God’s plan ever since the world began. The Restoration has provided sweeping sermons about God’s plan with its rescuing Redeemer, such as from Moses, Abinadi, Ether, Alma, Ammon, and Aaron (see      These answer the rhetorical question of one prophet who said: “Why not speak of the atonement of Christ?”  Brothers and sisters, given man’s true self-interest, why should we really speak much of anything else?He who truly searches the scriptures will surely see how they testify of Christ (see  He will also see how interactive and cross-supportive the scriptures are. If some see not, it will be “because they sought it not by faith”  but instead stared uncomprehendingly with slit-eyed skepticism. Said Jesus to the unseeing:“For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me.“But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?” Those who understood and believed not  which Moses wrote did not, in effect, believe  which Jesus spoke. This episode underscores the important words of Mormon about the relationship of the biblical record and the Book of Mormon:“For behold,  is written for the intent that ye may believe  and if ye believe  ye will believe  also.”Mutually supportive, the scriptures produce much-needed historical perspective “concerning your fathers, and also the marvelous works which were wrought by the power of God among them”  italics added).The various scriptures tell us vital things about God’s “tender mercies”   see also  and His dealings with our predecessors. What is past is truly prologue; hence an unvarying, all-seeing God, desiring to save mercurial and myopic man, is not interested in our retroactive adulation, but in preventing our prospective ruination.Thus, it is from the scriptures that we learn of God’s plans for mankind on this planet. He told us, through Isaiah, that He formed this earth to be inhabited (see  Through Moses, God described His purpose: “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  Furthermore, by viewing the heavens and the galaxies, those who have eyes to see will see “God moving in his majesty and power” We are thus enveloped in a planned universe, and we live on a purposeful planet; and these truths describe “things as they really are”  No wonder the gospel is such glorious and good news!If ever a generation needed this precious perspective, our severed generation does. If ever a generation needed to be saved from itself, ours does. Surely these needs will intensify as the bewildered and beset nations of the earth, as foreseen by Jesus, wallow hopelessly in distress, “with perplexity” In fact, we misread and misuse life—except with this plain and precious perspective of the gospel, which puts the things of the world in their lesser places. Then, on that essentially unchanging mortal stage, we can see things for what they really are, such as the demanding cadence called for by the cares of the world. Like birds and animals performing some inborn ritual, amusing to everyone but the participants, these maneuverings of materialism would be comedy if they were not tragedy. So would the posturings as to power and the thirsty seeking of the praise of the world. The ploys are so transparent when seen in the gospel’s light.Nevertheless, why are the ways of the world felt even by serious disciples so insistently and so incessantly? Could it be that in the far distant, premortal past, having admired the Father and having seen His glory, we now unconsciously envy His glory? Yet, if we really wish to share in His kingdom, why do we sternly resist what the revelations tell us of the required preparatory schooling and the risks of unrighteous power? God’s ultimate power is safe, precisely because He possesses ultimate love, justice, mercy, and knowledge. We cannot share in His power without sharing in His attributes.But, we may say, do we not have His spiritual genes? Yes, but we do not have His gentleness.Yet we are of His spiritual lineage! Yes, but we do not have His capacity to love.Surely, we belong to Him! Of course, but we cannot reenter His house until our behavior would let us feel at home.No wonder the prophets are repetitious in their warnings. After all, if one were permitted only a few surviving lines to family, friends, and posterity, those might be headlines. Sometimes what comes is almost a warning shout, especially when hearers are unstirred by the still, small voice (see  Besides, the prophets, who are the major makers of our spiritual memory, saw not only their own times, but ours as well; they have communicated with us as if we were present, for “behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing” Little wonder that Joseph Smith, in his last witnessing words from Carthage Jail the night before he was slain, bore “powerful testimony to the guards of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon, the restoration of the Gospel, the administration of angels” ( p. 383; see also   Without the prophets, the scriptures, how else would we really know about what “God had appointed … unto man … the plan of redemption” When searched, the scriptural truths of the unfolding plan of salvation are both electrifying and subduing. Gratefully pondered, they lead to lyrical expressions, such as in the 1842 litany by the Prophet Joseph Smith: “And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets—the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness … declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna! … The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness … declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!” Future revelations, brothers and sisters, will include astounding events as well as great and important truths. So much so, that Moses’ and Israel’s exulting song after safely crossing the Red Sea (see  and the Prophet Joseph’s 1842 litany will gladly give way to the crescendo of glorious events associated with Christ’s coming in majesty and power.The valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman will ring again—this time with the sounds of dispensational reunion, as it glows with gathering (see    Those of Enoch’s utterly unique city of “one heart”  will greet those of the New Zion with holy embraces and holy kisses amid the sounds of sweet sobbing (see  The “hills shall tremble” at the presence of the lost tribes, and hearts, as well as ice, will melt, as they come “filled with songs of everlasting joy” (see And it will all occur at the direction of the “Redeemer of Israel, our only delight.” Hence, “as children of Zion, good tidings for us … The hour of redemption is near” ( 1985, no. 6).In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.