The Prophet Joseph Smith was often asked to inquire of the Lord to learn what people should do. In the case of John Whitmer, the Lord said, “And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father” Jesus repeatedly called upon his disciples to preach the gospel to every living soul. Those who would believe were to be baptized in his name and enter into his church. After the Savior’s forty-day fast and the temptation by Satan, “Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.“And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.“And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.“And they straightway left their nets, and followed him. …“And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom” With loving patience, Jesus taught his disciples, and especially his twelve Apostles, to “preach the kingdom of God”  After the three years of his ministry, crowned by the Atonement, which included his glorious resurrection, Jesus gathered his eleven disciples in Galilee.“And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world” These instructions were clear. When Peter, the chief Apostle, finally understood them, he became a powerful leader. For example, on the day of Pentecost, he stood “with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judea, …“This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.“Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.“Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?“Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. …“Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls” When Jesus visited this continent, Nephi went forth and bowed himself before the Lord.“And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he arose and stood before him.“And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven.“And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize” To every people through all ages his message remains the same: “Preach the kingdom of God” The First Presidency has said that one of the threefold missions of the Church is to proclaim the gospel. If we accept this mission, we should be willing to center our efforts on bringing souls unto the Lord on condition of repentance.Two years ago I spoke on this subject, and I continue to feel an urgent need that we must constantly remind and help each other in our responsibilities to share the message of the Restoration with others.We often hear members say, “I know I should share the gospel, but I don’t know how to do it.” Perhaps the following success stories that have come to me may help you. These experiences resulted when members of the Church exercised their faith and followed some simple steps, such as setting a date to have someone prepared to be taught by the missionaries.From England:“In my calling as branch president, I decided one day to invite our whole community to join us in fasting [and giving a fast offering] for the people of Ethiopia. I had 4,000 leaflets produced, which we distributed to homes in our area.“One of the leaflets was delivered to a nonmember, and he and his wife felt impressed to take part. It was the name of the Church on the leaflet which first impressed them.“The husband came to the chapel with the fast offering as invited, and I met him there. I gave him a tour of our small building, shared my testimony with him, and invited him to come to church Sunday. He came, and I introduced him to our missionaries, who arranged to call on the home.“I was privileged to join with the missionaries on several joint teaching visits, and I developed a close relationship with the family.“On the evening of March 2, the night before the date I had set, I baptized the wife. Her husband will follow soon, and their daughter.“We have now met other families through this one, who are being taught. As for my wife and me, we have set another date!”From Oregon:“I set a date of just under two months and proceeded to ask for divine guidance in all of my daily prayers, and to fast for strength not to lose sight of my goal.“My date came and went, with a few pangs of guilt. However, I received a message one week later that an old friend of mine that I had gone to school with wanted me to call. I gave him a call and invited him over that night. My friend went with me to pick up some pizza. As we drove into town, I told him that I was a member of the LDS church. He was interested, so I related some of the many blessings I had received. I then asked him to attend church with me that next Sunday, which he did.“From the beginning, he accepted it all. We invited him to be baptized. He said he didn’t want to be rushed into anything. At this time, I was impressed to read to him from the Book of Mormon, using the words that Alma used at the waters of Mormon. As I read those verses from Mosiah 18 to him, I paused at each question that Alma asked and asked him if he were willing to do it also. He said yes to all of it. Then I read him verse 10 and asked him, ‘What have you against being baptized?’ “He looked at me and said, ‘You’re right, I have nothing to wait for.’ So the date was set, and I baptized and confirmed him a member of the Church.”From Florida:“As I knelt in prayer, I expressed a sincere desire to share the gospel with someone and asked my Heavenly Father to please send someone to me.“The very next morning there was a knock on my door, and it was a neighbor wanting to borrow a pan. Although she had lived by us for some time, we had not had much contact. Two days later both she and her husband came over to visit with us. During our conversation she mentioned that they had been looking for a church. I told her how my husband and I were once in that very same position and how our church filled that very special need we had. We invited them to church that Sunday, and they eagerly accepted. Afterward, we asked them if they would be interested in learning more by having the missionary lessons in our home. They told us that, indeed, they would be interested.“On Christmas Day, my husband baptized and confirmed them members of the Church. They have grown so strong, and they set a shining example to all. They are looking forward to the day when they and their new baby girl can be sealed in the temple for time and eternity.”Then, from far-off Buenos Aires:“In our family prayers we began to include the names of nonmembers who had not yet joined the Church. My children prayed for them. Our prayers were different. We were changing our attitude toward missionary work from waiting for opportunities to share the gospel to asking the Lord to prepare specific people, by name, to receive the lessons.“We have seen one person come into the Church who is now fully active. Three other families, chosen with the Lord’s help, have received the third discussion. All have been to church at least twice. All have been in our home for friendshipping and encouragement. They are receiving the opportunity to accept or reject the gospel message.”My brothers and sisters, from the experiences of these people and many more like them, we learn that we can give the saving ordinances of the gospel to others when we allow the Lord to help us with someone we know and love. Sharing our feelings about God and religion should be easy since most Latter-day Saints are loving, sharing, and trusting people. With a relationship of trust established and with help from the Lord, we generally can feel comfortable moving beyond the realm of friendship and can invite our friends to learn more about the Church.There are many ways to share the gospel. I know that the following four simple steps will help you in your effort to find and to share the gospel with others because many members have used them and have had successful missionary experiences. Prayerfully  by which you will have someone prepared to hear the gospel. We must start somewhere, and this simple act of faith on our part will serve to motivate us. Do not worry if you do not have someone already in mind. Let the Lord help you. Prayerfully choose a friend or someone you already know, someone with whom you may have already discussed the gospel, or given a Book of Mormon or other Church literature, or taken to church. Share your date and your plans with your bishopric, ward mission leader, and the full-time missionaries. They will help you.The most important step is  With the help of the Spirit, invite your nonmember friend to hear the missionary discussions. This step, extending an invitation to hear the gospel, requires the most faith—faith to do as you are prompted by the Holy Ghost.In talking of faith and saving souls, you should understand that when the Spirit is present, people are not offended when you share your feelings about the gospel. By prayerfully following these steps, you are putting a plan into effect that translates your faith into action.There are many good ways that you can use to prepare someone to feel the Spirit. A few examples are: bear your testimony, pray together, read the scriptures, give a Book of Mormon, share a spiritual experience, take your friend to church, present a gospel film or tape, and discuss the gospel. Please note that all of these same steps and principles will also work when we use them to invite the inactive member of the Church to come back into full activity.In the fiftieth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are assured that “he that receiveth the word by the Spirit of truth receiveth it as it is preached by the Spirit of truth. …“Wherefore, he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together” The key to success in bringing souls unto Christ is to act at a time when you feel the Spirit and you sense that your friend does also.Remember, brothers and sisters, through our faith, our trust in the Lord, and our good works, we can bring many souls unto the Lord. We can enjoy the blessings of living with them in the kingdom of our Father.Shortly after the death of Sister LeGrand Richards, I was assigned to be Elder Richards’ junior companion to assist him in creating the Atlanta Georgia Stake. As we were flying toward his beloved Southern States Mission, he said to me, “Brother Ballard, I am not afraid to die; the only thing I worry about is, will I be able to find Mommy over there.”I was impressed to say to Elder Richards that in his case that could be a real problem. Immediately, I had his full attention. He looked me directly in the eye and said, “What do you mean by that?”With my emotions near the surface, I answered this great missionary, “Elder Richards, when you die, so many people there will be anxious to greet you because you introduced the gospel to them that you might have difficulty finding Mommy in the crowd.” His response was, “Oh, you don’t mean that.”We all might ask ourselves the question, Who will be there to greet us?Oh, that I could have the power to touch your hearts that you would have the faith to take the simple steps that will bring the light of the gospel to many more of our Father’s children. The more I am involved in this work, the more I realize that Satan would have you and me believe that we cannot succeed in sharing the gospel. He lies to us. In fact, he is the father of all lies. Do not listen to him. Listen to the prompting of the Holy Ghost, and then act in faith in sharing the gospel.I testify to you, my brothers and sisters, that I know the Lord lives. I know that when we are willing to seek his help and guidance, when we trust in him completely, he will bless us to understand what to do and how to proceed in the wonderful work of sharing this glorious message with others.We do appreciate all you have done in the past. The leaders of the Church have great faith that, united together, the members and the missionaries of this Church can do much more in the future to build the kingdom of God.May the Lord bless us all with increased faith to move his work forward, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My thoughts at this time will be in the form of a dialogue between me and my fourteen-year-old son, Michael, who resides with us in Argentina. I will talk about how important he is and how much the Lord and I love him. At the same time I address these critical thoughts to him, they would be the same as I would express to my son David, the eldest of my six children, or to their four beautiful sisters, my daughters, Michelle, Andrea, Leanne, and Lycia.Fathers, would you like to join me and share the same thoughts as if directed to your sons and daughters, describing their singular importance in the eyes of our Heavenly Father?Hi, Michael, you know how much I trust and love you, don’t you? Let me try to show you who you are and how very important you are as a literal son of our Father in Heaven.President Harold B. Lee said that this understanding of who we are is “of first importance,” and without it we lack “the basis of a solid foundation upon which to build [our] lives” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1973, p. 5).First, Mike, we know by reasoning, seeing, and the impressions of the Spirit that the Lord is a living perfect man. Many have seen him: for example, Adam, Enoch, the brother of Jared, Abraham, Moses, Joseph Smith, Isaac, Jacob, Seth, Nephi, Isaiah, Emer, Joshua, Manoah and his wife, Solomon, Sidney Rigdon, Alma, Moroni, Stephen, and John. Alma states, “Many, exceedingly great many” have seen him Now another evidence of God: speaking of the planets and orbs, the Lord says, “Any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power”  “The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork” Mike, let’s visualize three scenes together. First of all, we see before us, Michael, our solar system: our sun, together with the earth and the eight other heavenly bodies that revolve around it. We see law, beauty, order, and perfection. Now, Michael, in this next scene, we see this same solar system in its place in our galaxy, the Milky Way. We marvel at the order and arrangement. Our planets are so small they can’t be detected here, but our sun and its nine planets appear as one of these shining orbs and are situated about two-thirds of the way from the center, about thirty thousand light years from the middle of the Milky Way. Our planets move about the sun; the sun itself moves in a circular path at a speed of 130 miles per second, yet even at that speed, Mike, a complete turn around the Milky Way takes two hundred billion years.  and is one hundred thousand light years wide. Now in this next scene, Michael, we see our galaxy, the Milky Way, in space along with other galaxies. You know, Mike, it is conservatively estimated that  Incomprehensible? I should say! We have soared out far beyond our imaginations.What is a billion, Michael? One thousand million—that’s right.What’s a definition of a million, Michael? That’s good; you say a million is like your mother telling you to clean up your room 274 times every day for ten years.How fast does light travel, Mike? That’s right: 186,000 miles per second. Hold up your left fist as if it represented the earth. Now whirl your right index finger around it. If your index finger spun around it about seven times in one second, you have shown how fast light would travel around the earth.It takes about eight minutes for light to reach the earth, and just over one second for light to reach the moon from the earth. Imagine how far light could travel in one day of 86,400 seconds. Wow! Then in one year … it is beyond our ability to understand.The Lord said: “And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten.“And the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying: The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine” He further said:“And were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea, millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of thy creations” Isn’t that exciting, Mike?From  we read: “As the sum of knowledge grows, the astronomer continues to seek answers to man’s most profound questions: ‘What is the grand design of the universe? How was it created? How did we get here? Are we alone?’” (p. 10).We again read, “It is impossible to any sensitive person to look at a star-filled sky without being stirred by thoughts of creation and eternity” (p. 166). “A super-giant elliptical galaxy may contain more than ten trillion stars and measure 300,000 light-years across. ( p. 134; italics added). See, Mike, the scientific world sees the evidence of a supreme being.With all this massive, orderly creation, are you, Michael, a single human being, important? The scriptures state:“When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained;“What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?“For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour.“Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet” Yes,  Michael, are  you are  the heavens were created.Mike, you must realize a truth: that God knows who you are and what you may become. He knows where you are and what he expects of you.You, Michael, are God’s son, hence heir to all he has. His purpose and goal is to bring to pass  immortality and eternal life. You are the most important thing that exists—his most important creation. So we must be master of our beings and control ourselves, and not be controlled by some habit or by someone else. We must be lifters and not leaners. Reach for the stars.You, Mike, with the Lord’s help, have an unlimited potential. Let’s follow the perfect example of the Master, our Savior. How easy it is to have hope: “Hope is the strongest weapon in the spiritual arsenal of youth” ( vol. 66, no. 6).The sun is  star, the only source of all light and energy for us. It makes life possible. star—a remarkable one. There are about two hundred billion blazing  or suns, in our star system alone, and over ten billion star systems; yet one sun is a remarkable one.  Michael, are like a sun—a remarkable Jesus, the Redeemer, had no office or public function, yet he shaped the world’s history. He wishes you to understand that you should be a remarkable  for the power is in  to make things happen.Here is a true story that relates a simple experience of a nineteen-year-old who became a remarkable  He was magnified and had great powers beyond his natural abilities as the Lord acted through him. There was a young nineteen-year-old admirer of Joseph Smith, Philemon Merrill, who had come with other loyal followers to rescue their prophet from the hands of sheriffs Reynolds and Wilson. While returning to Nauvoo, the company rested “in a little grove of timber.” One of the lawyers for the sheriff and the kidnappers boasted of his wrestling powers. He offered a wager that he could throw any man in Illinois. Stephen Markham, a bodyguard of Joseph’s and a huge man, also an experienced wrestler, took up the challenge. The boaster threw Stephen, and a taunting shout went up from the Prophet’s enemies.As the taunts continued, Joseph Smith turned to young Philemon Merrill and said: “‘Get up and throw that man.’”The boy was about to refuse, to excuse himself by saying he was not a wrestler, but the look in the Prophet’s eye silenced his tongue. “He arose to his feet filled with the strength of a Samson.” Philemon “lifted his arms” and told the lawyer to take his choice of sides.“The man took the left side with his right hand under,” which gave him a decided advantage. Philemon Merrill’s friends protested, but young Philemon felt such confidence in the words of the Prophet that it made little difference to him what advantage his antagonist took. As they began to grapple, Joseph instructed him, “‘Philemon, when I count three, !’“On the instant after the word of three dropped from Joseph’s lips,” Philemon Merrill, “with the strength of a giant, threw the lawyer over his left shoulder, and he fell striking his head upon the earth.”Little wonder it is reported that “awe fell upon the opponents of the Prophet when they saw this, and there were no more challenges to wrestle during the journey” (George Q. Cannon,  Classics in Mormon Literature, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1986, pp. 450–51).Here’s another example of a remarkable  Michael—John Taylor, in his book  relates how the  is magnified by the Spirit and  extraordinary things happen:“Some … years ago, in Far West, a mob—one of those semi-occasional occurrences—had come against us with evil intent, placing themselves in position to give us battle. … We had one fellow who … ordered our people to retreat. As soon as Joseph heard this sound, he exclaimed, ‘Retreat! where in the name of God shall we retreat to?’ He then led us out to the prairie, facing the mob, and placed us in position. And the first thing we knew a flag of truce was seen coming towards us.“… Joseph Smith, our leader, then sent word back by this messenger. Said he, ‘Tell your general to withdraw his troops or I will send them to hell.’  But they thought we were more numerous than we really were. It may be that our numbers were magnified in their eyes. But they took the hint and left. … The Lord, through simple means, is able to take care of and deliver his people, but they must put implicit faith and confidence in him” ( sel. G. Homer Durham, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1964, pp. 354–355).Another example of a remarkable Let me quote Elder James E. Talmage, a former member of the Quorum of the Twelve: “What is man [or if I may add, what is Michael Brewerton] in this boundless setting of sublime splendor? I answer you: Potentially now, actually to be, he [or Michael] is greater and grander, more precious according to the arithmetic of God, than all the planets and suns of space. For him were they created; they are the handiwork of God; man is his son. In this world man is given dominion over a few things; it is his privilege to achieve supremacy over many things” (Aug. 9, 1931).With the exception of the few years when the Savior graced the earth, this, Mike, is the most exciting time to live. We have the gospel in its fulness, so many scriptures are being fulfilled, and so much history is being made. You are an important part of it.Let me express my true feelings to you about the Church. I know, Michael, in a decisive, indelible manner—due to the Spirit—that Jesus is our Redeemer. He lives, as does his Father. He is the living Son of a living God. President Benson and the First Presidency are his living servants through whom His will is given to all the world. Watch them, Mike, listen to them, follow them. This is the only church of Jesus Christ on the earth, Michael, and you are just as important as any human being in all history. You are of infinite worth. I love you, pal. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.