We have heard how the Holy Ghost directs us. I remember years ago in a temple meeting that President David O. McKay suggested that even though you prepare a talk ten days before conference, the Lord can inspire you then as well as when you are at the podium. I couldn’t help but think of that as I listened to Elder Russell M. Nelson speak about joy and as the choir sang about joy, as I am about to speak to you about happiness and joy in temple work. My dear brothers and sisters, I am indeed happy to be with you in this great conference, and I pray that I may be guided by the Spirit of the Lord in speaking to you.The First Presidency of the Church has outlined the mission of the Church to be: to take the gospel to all mankind, to perfect the Saints, and to do temple and genealogy work for ourselves and the dead.The title of my message is taken from the thirtieth Psalm, verse 5  “Joy cometh in the morning.” As I discussed this scripture with members of our family, they recalled that “men are, that they might have joy”  but they had not pondered the intriguing concept that “joy cometh in the morning.”One of our family said, “News reports appear almost daily concerning people who have problems with drugs, drinking, and emotional distress. How can they, and we, attain the joy spoken of in the scriptures?”“The gospel of Jesus Christ offers hope,” I answered. “It declares joy to be part of our divine destiny. And to experience joy in the morning becomes our special challenge. The true test,” I continued, “is to be able to look in the mirror, first thing in the morning, and feel real joy.”One of our daughters, who had recently announced that she was expecting a new addition to the family, said, “But Dad, that’s the hardest time of the day for me!”“My dear ones,” I replied, “in order to experience true joy in the morning, or at any time, at least three factors are needed. You need to feel good about the people with whom you live and work—your companions in life. You must feel good about yourself—not in any sense of conceit, but simply a proper esteem for yourself, well deserved. And possibly most important, you must feel good about your relation to God and sincerely love him.”As I so counseled my family in that conversation, we all might consider those three steps to achieve real joy in life.