The holy scriptures represent mankind’s spiritual memory. And when man’s connection with scripture is severed, mortals are tragically deprived of an awareness of spiritual history, blinding the eyes of faith. Thereby shorn of true identity, mortals keep their legs intact, but each walks in his own way. Their arms are acquisitive, but do not reach out in an understanding embrace of life. Their ears function, but they no longer hear the word of the Lord. Though created in God’s image, those thus severed soon forget their Maker. Yet it is not surprising, “For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents of his heart?” By contrast, one of the unique features of the living church of Jesus Christ is its ever-expanding body of fundamental spiritual knowledge about man’s identity and purpose, which enlarges “the memory of this people”  In fact, our ninth article of faith declares that God “will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God.”  Thus nourished by a menu blending antiquity and futurity, Church members need never “faint in [their] minds”  Instead, we can be intellectually vibrant.Lost books are among the treasures yet to come forth. Over twenty of these are mentioned in the existing scriptures. Perhaps most startling and voluminous will be the records of the lost tribes of Israel (see  We would not even know of the impending third witness for Christ except through the precious Book of Mormon, the second witness for Christ! This third set of sacred records will thus complete a triad of truth. Then, just as the Perfect Shepherd has said, “My word also shall be gathered in one”  There will be “one fold and one shepherd”  in a welding together of all the Christian dispensations of human history (see Whereas previous prophets were sometimes left to surmise—as Moroni supposed the Jews also had a record of the Creation from Adam on down (see ours, instead, is a time of fulness, including “things which never have been revealed from the foundation of the world”  Moreover, “and the day cometh that the words of the book which were sealed shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be even unto the end of the earth”  see also    Thus, just as there will be many more Church members, families, wards, stakes, and temples—later on, there will also be many more nourishing and inspiring scriptures. However, we must first feast worthily upon that which we already have!Without this precious, spiritual perspective, the human family is seldom more than one generation away from deep doubt and even disbelief. Laman and Lemuel doubted and murmured because, wrote Nephi, “they knew not the dealings of that God who had created them”  they were provincial, just like forgetful Israel: “and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel”  see also  If people are without the truths of God’s plan of salvation for very long, some may not even “believe [these truths] when they are taught”  An untaught “rising generation” comes not to “believe … concerning the resurrection, … neither … the coming of Christ”  Belief in Deity and in the resurrection are usually the first to go: “they had brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their Creator” Our loving Father is ever anxious to dispel such ignorance:“And after God had appointed that these things should come unto man, behold, then he saw that it was expedient that man should know concerning the things whereof he had appointed unto them;“Therefore he sent angels to converse with them. …“… And made known unto them the plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation of the world; and this he made known unto them according to their faith and repentance and their holy works” The message is ever constant and ever relevant:“Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children?“Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming?” Today’s mortals, born long “after the time of his [first] coming,” surely need to know of the plan, which gives, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, “a comprehensive view of our condition and true relation to God.” The Prophet said this subject should be studied “more than any other, … day and night” ( sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 324).God’s plan, however, is not something to be deduced by logic alone, nor is human experience deep enough or long enough to inform us adequately. It requires revelation from God.“Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord. How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways. And no man knoweth of his ways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of God” How else would we really know the truth of who we really were, “really are, and … really will be” (see   There can be no true felicity without true identity.Therefore, the process of revelation typically involves angels and prophets (see  Several times in the closing period of his life, Joseph Smith noted the fourteen years of particularly intensive revelation which he had experienced, including angelic visitations (see  pp. 349, 360;  comp. Dean C. Jessee, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1984, p. 407).The Restoration’s Messiah-centered scriptures expand mankind’s spiritual memory significantly and further educate us concerning the unfolding of God’s plan ever since the world began. The Restoration has provided sweeping sermons about God’s plan with its rescuing Redeemer, such as from Moses, Abinadi, Ether, Alma, Ammon, and Aaron (see      These answer the rhetorical question of one prophet who said: “Why not speak of the atonement of Christ?”  Brothers and sisters, given man’s true self-interest, why should we really speak much of anything else?He who truly searches the scriptures will surely see how they testify of Christ (see  He will also see how interactive and cross-supportive the scriptures are. If some see not, it will be “because they sought it not by faith”  but instead stared uncomprehendingly with slit-eyed skepticism. Said Jesus to the unseeing:“For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me.“But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?” Those who understood and believed not  which Moses wrote did not, in effect, believe  which Jesus spoke. This episode underscores the important words of Mormon about the relationship of the biblical record and the Book of Mormon:“For behold,  is written for the intent that ye may believe  and if ye believe  ye will believe  also.”Mutually supportive, the scriptures produce much-needed historical perspective “concerning your fathers, and also the marvelous works which were wrought by the power of God among them”  italics added).The various scriptures tell us vital things about God’s “tender mercies”   see also  and His dealings with our predecessors. What is past is truly prologue; hence an unvarying, all-seeing God, desiring to save mercurial and myopic man, is not interested in our retroactive adulation, but in preventing our prospective ruination.Thus, it is from the scriptures that we learn of God’s plans for mankind on this planet. He told us, through Isaiah, that He formed this earth to be inhabited (see  Through Moses, God described His purpose: “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  Furthermore, by viewing the heavens and the galaxies, those who have eyes to see will see “God moving in his majesty and power” We are thus enveloped in a planned universe, and we live on a purposeful planet; and these truths describe “things as they really are”  No wonder the gospel is such glorious and good news!If ever a generation needed this precious perspective, our severed generation does. If ever a generation needed to be saved from itself, ours does. Surely these needs will intensify as the bewildered and beset nations of the earth, as foreseen by Jesus, wallow hopelessly in distress, “with perplexity” In fact, we misread and misuse life—except with this plain and precious perspective of the gospel, which puts the things of the world in their lesser places. Then, on that essentially unchanging mortal stage, we can see things for what they really are, such as the demanding cadence called for by the cares of the world. Like birds and animals performing some inborn ritual, amusing to everyone but the participants, these maneuverings of materialism would be comedy if they were not tragedy. So would the posturings as to power and the thirsty seeking of the praise of the world. The ploys are so transparent when seen in the gospel’s light.Nevertheless, why are the ways of the world felt even by serious disciples so insistently and so incessantly? Could it be that in the far distant, premortal past, having admired the Father and having seen His glory, we now unconsciously envy His glory? Yet, if we really wish to share in His kingdom, why do we sternly resist what the revelations tell us of the required preparatory schooling and the risks of unrighteous power? God’s ultimate power is safe, precisely because He possesses ultimate love, justice, mercy, and knowledge. We cannot share in His power without sharing in His attributes.But, we may say, do we not have His spiritual genes? Yes, but we do not have His gentleness.Yet we are of His spiritual lineage! Yes, but we do not have His capacity to love.Surely, we belong to Him! Of course, but we cannot reenter His house until our behavior would let us feel at home.No wonder the prophets are repetitious in their warnings. After all, if one were permitted only a few surviving lines to family, friends, and posterity, those might be headlines. Sometimes what comes is almost a warning shout, especially when hearers are unstirred by the still, small voice (see  Besides, the prophets, who are the major makers of our spiritual memory, saw not only their own times, but ours as well; they have communicated with us as if we were present, for “behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing” Little wonder that Joseph Smith, in his last witnessing words from Carthage Jail the night before he was slain, bore “powerful testimony to the guards of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon, the restoration of the Gospel, the administration of angels” ( p. 383; see also   Without the prophets, the scriptures, how else would we really know about what “God had appointed … unto man … the plan of redemption” When searched, the scriptural truths of the unfolding plan of salvation are both electrifying and subduing. Gratefully pondered, they lead to lyrical expressions, such as in the 1842 litany by the Prophet Joseph Smith: “And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets—the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness … declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna! … The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness … declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!” Future revelations, brothers and sisters, will include astounding events as well as great and important truths. So much so, that Moses’ and Israel’s exulting song after safely crossing the Red Sea (see  and the Prophet Joseph’s 1842 litany will gladly give way to the crescendo of glorious events associated with Christ’s coming in majesty and power.The valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman will ring again—this time with the sounds of dispensational reunion, as it glows with gathering (see    Those of Enoch’s utterly unique city of “one heart”  will greet those of the New Zion with holy embraces and holy kisses amid the sounds of sweet sobbing (see  The “hills shall tremble” at the presence of the lost tribes, and hearts, as well as ice, will melt, as they come “filled with songs of everlasting joy” (see And it will all occur at the direction of the “Redeemer of Israel, our only delight.” Hence, “as children of Zion, good tidings for us … The hour of redemption is near” ( 1985, no. 6).In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My brethren and sisters, I have chosen a text this morning that is familiar to all of you. It is the first article of our faith. It is the pivotal position of our religion. It is significant that in setting forth the primary elements of our doctrine, the Prophet Joseph put this number one.“We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.” The preeminence given that declaration is in accord with another statement the Prophet made. Said he:“It is the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God” ( 6:305).These tremendously significant and overarching declarations are in harmony with the words of the Lord in His great intercessory prayer:“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” I was handed a tract the other day. It was written by a critic, an enemy of the Church whose desire is to undermine the faith of the weak and the unknowing. It repeats fallacies that have been parroted for a century and more. It purports to set forth what you and I, as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, believe.Without wishing to argue with any of our friends of other faiths, many of whom I know and for whom I have the highest regard, I take this occasion to set forth my position on this most important of all theological subjects.I believe without equivocation or reservation in God, the Eternal Father. He is my Father, the Father of my spirit, and the Father of the spirits of all men. He is the great Creator, the Ruler of the Universe. He directed the creation of this earth on which we live. In His image man was created. He is personal. He is real. He is individual. He has “a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s” In the account of the creation of the earth, “God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness” Could any language be more explicit? Does it demean God, as some would have us believe, that man was created in His express image? Rather, it should stir within the heart of every man and woman a greater appreciation for himself or herself as a son or daughter of God. Paul’s words to the Corinthian Saints are as applicable to us today as they were to those to whom he wrote. Said he:“Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?“If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are” I remember the occasion of more than fifty years ago when, as a missionary, I was speaking in an open-air meeting in Hyde Park, London. As I was presenting my message, a heckler interrupted to say, “Why don’t you stay with the doctrine of the Bible which says in John  ‘God is a Spirit’?”I opened my Bible to the verse he had quoted and read to him the entire verse:“God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.”I said, “Of course God is a spirit, and so are you, in the combination of spirit and body that makes of you a living being, and so am I.”Each of us is a dual being of spiritual entity and physical entity. All know of the reality of death when the body dies, and each of us also knows that the spirit lives on as an individual entity and that at some time, under the divine plan made possible by the sacrifice of the Son of God, there will be a reunion of spirit and body. Jesus’ declaration that God is a spirit no more denies that he has a body than does the statement that I am a spirit while also having a body.I do not equate my body with His in its refinement, in its capacity, in its beauty and radiance. His is eternal. Mine is mortal. But that only increases my reverence for Him. I worship Him “in spirit and in truth.” I look to Him as my strength. I pray to Him for wisdom beyond my own. I seek to love Him with all my heart, might, mind, and strength. His wisdom is greater than the wisdom of all men. His power is greater than the power of nature, for He is the Creator Omnipotent. His love is greater than the love of any other, for His love encompasses all of His children, and it is His work and His glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of His sons and daughters of all generations (see He “so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life” This is the Almighty of whom I stand in awe and reverence. It is He to whom I look in fear and trembling. It is He whom I worship and unto whom I give honor and praise and glory. He is my Heavenly Father, who has invited me to come unto Him in prayer, to speak with Him, with the promised assurance that He will hear and respond.I thank Him for the light and knowledge and understanding He has bestowed upon His children. I thank Him for His voice, which has spoken eternal truth with power and promise. I thank Him for His revelation of Himself as set forth in the Old Testament, for His declaration, as set forth in the New Testament, at the baptism of His Beloved Son in the waters of Jordan when His voice was heard saying: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” I thank Him for His similar declaration on the Mount of Transfiguration when He spoke again to Jesus and His Apostles, and angels also, when “after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart,“And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.“And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him.“Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.“While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him” I thank Him for that voice again heard when the risen Lord was introduced to the people of this hemisphere with the voice of God declaring, “Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name” I stand in awe and reverence and gratitude for His appearance in this dispensation when, as He introduced the risen Lord to one who had sought Him in prayer, the Father declared: “This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!” I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the eternal, living God. I believe in Him as the Firstborn of the Father and the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. I believe in Him as an individual, separate and distinct from His Father. I believe in the declaration of John, who opened his gospel with this majestic utterance:“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.“The same was in the beginning with God. …“And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father), full of grace and truth” I believe that He was born of Mary of the lineage of David as the promised Messiah, that He was in very deed begotten of the Father, and that in His birth was the fulfillment of the great prophetic declaration of Isaiah:“For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace” I believe that in His mortal life He was the one perfect man to walk the earth. I believe that in His words are to be found that light and truth which, if observed, would save the world and bring exaltation to mankind. I believe that in His priesthood rests divine authority—the power to bless, the power to heal, the power to govern in the earthly affairs of God, the power to bind in the heavens that which is bound upon the earth.I believe that through His atoning sacrifice, the offering of His life on Calvary’s Hill, He expiated the sins of mankind, relieving us from the burden of sin if we will forsake evil and follow Him. I believe in the reality and the power of His resurrection. I believe in the grace of God made manifest through His sacrifice and redemption, and I believe that through His atonement, without any price on our part, each of us is offered the gift of resurrection from the dead. I believe further that through that sacrifice there is extended to every man and woman, every son and daughter of God, the opportunity for eternal life and exaltation in our Father’s kingdom, as we hearken and obey His commandments.None so great has ever walked the earth. None other has made a comparable sacrifice or granted a comparable blessing. He is the Savior and the Redeemer of the world. I believe in Him. I declare His divinity without equivocation or compromise. I love Him. I speak His name in reverence and wonder. I worship Him as I worship His Father, in spirit and in truth. I thank Him and kneel before His wounded feet and hands and side, amazed at the love He offers me.God be thanked for His Beloved Son who reached out long ago and said to each of us:“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light” He lives, the firstfruits of the Resurrection. I know He lives today as really, as certainly, as individually, as He lived when, as the risen Lord, He beckoned His discouraged disciples to “come and dine …“And [He] taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise” The scripture tells of others to whom He showed Himself and with whom He spoke, as the living, resurrected Son of God.Likewise in this dispensation He has appeared, and those who saw Him declared:“And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—“That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God” This is the Christ in whom I believe and of whom I testify.That knowledge comes from the word of scripture, and that testimony comes by the power of the Holy Ghost. It is a gift, sacred and wonderful, borne by revelation from the third member of the Godhead. I believe in the Holy Ghost as a personage of spirit who occupies a place with the Father and the Son, these three comprising the divine Godhead.The importance of that place is made clear from the words of the Lord who said:“All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.“And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come” That the Holy Ghost was recognized in ancient times as a member of the Godhead is evident from the conversation between Peter and Ananias when the latter held back a part of the price received from the sale of a piece of land.“But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? … thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God” The Holy Ghost stands as the third member of the Godhead, the Comforter promised by the Savior who would teach His followers all things and bring all things to their remembrance, whatsoever He had said unto them (see The Holy Ghost is the Testifier of Truth, who can teach men things they cannot teach one another. In those great and challenging words of Moroni, a knowledge of the truth of the Book of Mormon is promised “by the power of the Holy Ghost.” Moroni then declares, “And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things” I believe this power, this gift, is available to us today.And so, my beloved brethren and sisters, I believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.I was baptized in the name of these three. I was married in the name of these three. I have no question concerning their reality and their individuality. That individuality was made apparent when Jesus was baptized by John in Jordan. There in the water stood the Son of God. His Father’s voice was heard declaring His divine Sonship, and the Holy Ghost was manifest in the form of a dove (see I am aware that Jesus said that they who had seen Him had seen the Father. Could not the same be said by many a son who resembles his parent?When Jesus prayed to the Father, certainly He was not praying to Himself!They are distinct beings, but they are one in purpose and effort. They are united as one in bringing to pass the grand, divine plan for the salvation and exaltation of the children of God.In His great, moving prayer in the Garden before His betrayal, Christ pleaded with His Father concerning the Apostles, whom He loved, saying:“Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word;“That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us” It is that perfect unity between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost that binds these three into the oneness of the divine Godhead.Miracle of miracles and wonder of wonders, they are interested in us, and we are the substance of their great concern. They are available to each of us. We approach the Father through the Son. He is our intercessor at the throne of God. How marvelous it is that we may so speak to the Father in the name of the Son.I bear witness of these great, transcendent truths. I do so by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.