My dear brothers and sisters, since last general conference, I have felt in my own life the power of priesthood blessings and the power of the faith and prayers of Church members. For many years, I have given blessings to others. I have fasted and prayed for their well-being and have exercised my faith for their recovery. Recently, during a serious illness, I was the recipient of such faith, prayers, and blessings. I thank you, brothers and sisters, for the prayers that you have offered in my behalf.One of my colleagues said to me that some good would come from this illness. He suggested that it is good, on occasion, for everyone to face adversity, especially if it causes introspection that enables us to openly and honestly assess our lives. That is what I did.The night before my surgery, my doctors talked about the possibility of cancer. When I was left alone, my mind filled with thoughts of my family and of my ministry. I found comfort in the ordinances of the gospel that bind me to my family if we are faithful. I realized that I needed to rearrange some of my priorities to accomplish the things that matter most to me.Sometimes we need a personal crisis to reinforce in our minds what we really value and cherish. The scriptures are filled with examples of people facing crises before learning how to better serve God and others. Perhaps if you, too, search your hearts and courageously assess the priorities in your life, you may discover, as I did, that you need a better balance among your priorities.All of us must come to an honest, open self-examination, an awareness within as to who and what we want to be.As most of you know, coping with the complex and diverse challenges of everyday life, which is not an easy task, can upset the balance and harmony we seek. Many good people who care a great deal are trying very hard to maintain balance, but they sometimes feel overwhelmed and defeated.A mother of four small children said: “There is no balance at all in my life. I am completely consumed in trying to raise my children. I hardly have time to think of anything else!”A young father, who felt the pressure of being the family provider, said: “My new business requires all of my time. I realize that I am neglecting my family and church duties, but if I can just get through one more year I will make enough money, and then things will settle down.”A high school student said: “We hear so many contrasting views that it is hard to always know what is right and what is wrong.”How often have we heard this one? “No one knows better than I do how important exercise is, but I just have no time in my day for exercising.”A single parent said: “I find it next to impossible to accomplish all that I need to do to manage my home and lead my family. In fact, sometimes I think the world expects too much of me. Regardless of how hard I work, I never will live up to everyone’s expectations.”Another mother of four remarked: “My struggle is between self-esteem, confidence, and feelings of self-worth versus guilt, depression, and discouragement for not doing everything I am told we must do to attain the celestial kingdom.”Brothers and sisters, we all face these kinds of struggles from time to time. They are common human experiences. Many people have heavy demands upon them stemming from parental, family, employment, church, and civic responsibilities. Keeping everything in balance can be a real problem.A periodic review of the covenants we have made with the Lord will help us with our priorities and with balance in our lives. This review will help us see where we need to repent and change our lives to ensure that we are worthy of the promises that accompany our covenants and sacred ordinances. Working out our own salvation requires good planning and a deliberate, valiant effort.I have a few suggestions that I hope will be valuable to those of you concerned with balancing life’s demands. These suggestions are very basic; their concepts can easily be overlooked if you are not careful. You will need a strong commitment and personal discipline to incorporate them into your life.First, think about your life and set your priorities. Find some quiet time regularly to think deeply about where you are going and what you will need to do to get there. Jesus, our exemplar, often “withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed”  We need to do the same thing occasionally to rejuvenate ourselves spiritually as the Savior did. Write down the tasks you would like to accomplish each day. Keep foremost in mind the sacred covenants you have made with the Lord as you write down your daily schedules.Second, set short-term goals that you can reach. Set goals that are well balanced—not too many nor too few, and not too high nor too low. Write down your attainable goals and work on them according to their importance. Pray for divine guidance in your goal setting.You recall that Alma said he would like to be an angel so he could “speak with the trump of God, … to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people!”  He then said, “But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me. …“Why should I desire more than to perform the work to which I have been called?” Third, everyone faces financial challenges in life. Through wise budgeting, control your real needs and measure them carefully against your many wants in life. Far too many individuals and families have incurred too much debt. Be careful of the many attractive offers to borrow money. It is much easier to borrow money than it is to pay it back. There are no shortcuts to financial security. There are no get-rich-quick schemes that work. Perhaps none need the principle of balance in their lives more than those who are driven toward accumulating “things” in this world.Do not trust your money to others without a thorough evaluation of any proposed investment. Our people have lost far too much money by trusting their assets to others. In my judgment, we never will have balance in our lives unless our finances are securely under control.The prophet Jacob said to his people: “Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satisfy. Hearken diligently unto me, and remember the words which I have spoken; and come unto the Holy One of Israel, and feast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted, and let your soul delight in fatness” Brothers and sisters, remember to always pay a full tithing.Fourth, stay close to your spouse, children, relatives, and friends. They will help you keep a balance in your life. In a recent study by the Church, adults in the United States were asked to identify a time when they were very happy and to describe the experience. They were also asked to describe a time when they were very unhappy. For most people, one thing that had made them the most happy or the most sad was their personal relationships with others. Much less important were their personal health, employment, money, and other material things. Build relationships with your family and friends through open and honest communication.A good marriage and good family relationships can be maintained through gentle, loving, thoughtful communication. Remember that often a glance, a wink, a nod, or a touch will say more than words. A sense of humor and good listening are also vital parts of good communication.Fifth, study the scriptures. They offer one of the best sources we have to keep in touch with the Spirit of the Lord. One of the ways I have gained my sure knowledge that Jesus is the Christ is through my study of the scriptures. President Ezra Taft Benson has called upon members of the Church to make the study of the Book of Mormon a daily habit and a lifetime pursuit. The Apostle Paul’s advice to Timothy is good counsel for each of us. He wrote: “From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.“All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness” Sixth, many people, including me, have difficulty finding the time for sufficient rest, exercise, and relaxation. We must schedule time on our daily calendars for these activities if we are to enjoy a healthy and balanced life. Good physical appearance enhances our dignity and self-respect.Seventh, the prophets have taught repeatedly that families should teach one another the gospel, preferably in a weekly family home evening. This family practice, if we are not very careful, can slowly drift away from us. We must not lose this special opportunity to “teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom”  which will lead families to eternal life.Satan is always working to destroy our testimonies, but he will not have the power to tempt or disturb us beyond our strength to resist when we are studying the gospel and living its commandments.My last suggestion is to pray often as individuals and as families. Parents need to exercise the discipline required to lead out and motivate children to join together for regular family prayers. Our youth can know the right decisions to make each day through constant, sincere prayer.The prophet Alma summarized the importance of prayer in these words: “But that ye would humble yourselves before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear, and thus be led by the Holy Spirit, becoming humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of love and all long-suffering”  When I am in tune spiritually, I find that I can balance everything in my life much more easily.I realize, brothers and sisters, that other suggestions could be added to these. However, I believe that when we focus on a few basic objectives, we are more likely to be able to manage the many demands that life makes on us. Remember, too much of anything in life can throw us off-balance. At the same time, too little of the important things can do the same thing. King Benjamin counseled “that all these things are done in wisdom and order” Often the lack of clear direction and goals can waste away our time and energy and contribute to imbalance in our lives. A life that gets out of balance is much like a car tire that is out of balance. It will make the operation of the car rough and unsafe. Tires in perfect balance can give a smooth and comfortable ride. So it is with life. The ride through mortality can be smoother for us when we strive to stay in balance. Our main goal should be to seek “immortality and eternal life”  With this as our goal, why not eliminate from our lives the things that clamor for and consume our thoughts, feelings, and energies without contributing to our reaching that goal?Just a word to Church leaders: Be very careful that what you ask from members will help them attain eternal life. For Church members to be able to balance their lives, Church leaders must be sure they do not require so much from members that they have no time to accomplish their personal and family goals.Not long ago, one of my children said, “Dad, sometimes I wonder if I will ever make it.” The answer I gave to her is the same as I would give to you if you have had similar feelings. Just do the very best you can each day. Do the basic things and, before you realize it, your life will be full of spiritual understanding that will confirm to you that your Heavenly Father loves you. When a person knows this, then life will be full of purpose and meaning, making balance easier to maintain.Live every day with joy in your heart, brothers and sisters. I humbly testify that life can be wonderful, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I would like to speak about what it means to be a saint. Some people call us Mormons. Some call us a sect or a cult. We call ourselves Saints. What do these designations signify?A Mormon could be any kind of a person who has membership in the Church.A sect is a body of persons following certain principles or doctrines. The earliest followers of the Savior were called a sect.A cult is described as a particular system of religious worship having a fixed veneration for a person.A saint is one who follows Christ in holiness and devotion with a view fixed on  life.With proper understanding, there is nothing wrong with any of these designations. When they are used to imply ridicule and slander, they can all be offensive.Many members of the Church become upset when those terms are used by name-callers. Calling people names to ridicule them or to offend them is an old, childish practice. Children respond by chanting with some truth: “Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will never hurt me.”It isn’t very important what impolite people call this Church and its people. Name-calling has been an age-old pastime among people who profess to be religious. The words  and  have all had their day.What really matters is what we ourselves believe, what we do, and most important, what we are. “Are you a born-again Christian?” Well, in the sense that some others think of it, perhaps not—that is, if the phrase means something like to have “confessed Christ” as the only requirement for salvation. On the other hand, if this question is considered in a literal and doctrinal sense, we might reflect on a positive answer.Brother Carmen Bria, a neighbor of ours converted from another church, was assisting prisoners as a social worker. A certain young prisoner became interested in the gospel. His father, a minister from another church, visited the boy and was very upset that his son was studying Mormon doctrine, even more than he was by the fact that his son was in prison.Brother Bria approached the father and asked why he was so distressed. The father replied, “You are not saved.”“Why do you say that?” asked Brother Bria.“Well,” said the father, “you have not taken Christ as your personal Savior. You have not been born again in Christ.”Brother Bria responded, “Sir, let me explain it to you. We may not say it just the way you do, but we most certainly do believe in a literal salvation through Jesus Christ. We  accepted him as our personal Savior, have taken upon us his name, and we have been born again in Christ.”As Paul said: “Therefore we are buried with him by  into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life”  italics added).Members of the Church should know that they are born again—“redeemed of God,” as the Prophet Alma said, “[to] be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life” King Benjamin said: “And now, because of the covenant which ye have made ye shall be called the children of Christ, his sons, and his daughters; for behold, this day he hath spiritually begotten you; for ye say that your hearts are changed through faith on his name; therefore, ye are born of him and have become his sons and his daughters” If, then, we understand that we are born again, having taken upon us the name of Christ, the big question is: Do we act like it?A saint is one who follows Christ in holiness and devotion. This is the commitment of a Latter-day Saint.Another question: Are we perfect? As a response to that question, I repeat a story about the speaker who said to his congregation, “If there is anyone here who is perfect, will he please stand.” One man stood, and the speaker inquired, “Sir, do you really believe that you are perfect?”The man responded, “Oh, no. I am not standing for myself. I stand as proxy for my wife’s first husband.”Few members of the Church would claim to be perfect, although it should always be our goal. What we do is to strive with faith and devotion onward toward perfection in order to obtain eternal life.There are many ways to be imperfect. After a long sermon of admonition, King Benjamin said: “I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many that I cannot number them.“But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not  of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, O man, remember, and perish not”  italics added).The many imperfections which trouble our daily lives require us to be a repenting as well as a repentant people. We should pay attention to the gentle admonitions as well as the thundering warnings.At the conclusion of the October 1975 general conference, President Spencer W. Kimball said: “While sitting here, I have made up my mind that when I go home from this conference this night there are many, many areas in my life that I can perfect. I have made a mental list of them, and I expect to go to work as soon as we get through with conference” (Nov. 1975, p. 111).So this mortal part of our eternal life is a time of probation. We desired the experience before we were born. Now we are in the midst of the great test. “And we will prove them herewith,” said the Lord, “to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them” Great numbers of the Saints throughout the world are doing very well. They take their probation seriously. They have established happy, righteous homes. Children grow up in the “nurture and admonition of the Lord”  Their theme song is “Love at Home.” Home evenings, love for the scriptures, association in meetings with their brothers and sisters, payment of their tithes, plans for education and missionary service are the direction of their efforts with their faces steadfastly turned toward the temple.This is far different from “confessing Christ” as the one single requirement for salvation.  take literally the parable in the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew about the Judgment Day (see  They reach out to one another and to the poor and distressed. Thus, they may be found on the right hand of God. No matter who you are and what you may think, God has established certain conditions or requirements to return to his presence. “They who keep their first estate shall be added upon; … and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever” Saints go beyond the required righteous living to enter into the covenants and receive the ordinances of the gospel. These are taught and administered through his authorized servants by the power of the holy priesthood.  priesthood is not man-made. The ordinances and covenants belong to  priesthood. Beyond baptism, without which the Lord said we “cannot enter into the kingdom of God”  are further gifts and blessings which are received in the temple. There we enter into solemn covenants with God. Through the priesthood we receive the ordinances which direct us toward the veil, that we may enter again into his presence.Now, of course the ordinances alone do not make us saints. Our actions do that, but even saints have not the power to return to God’s presence without Christ’s infinite atonement. That is why we enter into the covenants.In this second estate, is our perspective short-range or is it eternal? Elder Spencer W. Kimball, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, drew this to our attention in 1968: “One day,” he said, “a friend took me to his ranch. He unlocked the door of a large new automobile, slid under the wheel, and said proudly, ‘How do you like my new car?’ We rode in luxurious comfort … to a beautiful new landscaped home, and he said with no little pride, ‘This is my home.’“He drove to a grassy knoll. The sun was retiring behind the distant hills. He surveyed his vast domain. …“With a wide sweeping gesture he boasted, ‘From the clump of trees, to the lake, to the bluff, and to the ranch buildings and all between—all this is mine. …“I saw him lying in his death,” said President Kimball, “among luxurious furnishings in a palatial home. His had been a vast estate. … I spoke at his funeral, and I followed the cortege … to his grave, a tiny, oblong area the length of a tall man, the width of a heavy one.“Yesterday I saw that same estate, yellow in grain, green in lucerne, white in cotton, seemingly unmindful of him who had claimed it” ( June 1968, pp. 81–82).The earth is the Lord’s. We are only stewards.Some who have made the covenant do not take it seriously. Having received baptism as a form and not as a covenant, they scarcely advance to the sacrament table. Saints will take it seriously. The ordinances of the priesthood and the covenants entered into in the temple direct us toward the consecrated life God expects of those who have taken the name of Jesus Christ.Speaking in Logan in 1984, President Ezra Taft Benson taught that Adam and his posterity were commanded “to enter into the order of the Son of God. To enter into the order of the Son of God [see  he said, “is the equivalent today of entering into the fullness of the Melchizedek Priesthood, which is only received in the house of the Lord” (Aug. 1985, p. 8).“For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live” That the Saints will accept this priesthood, receive its ordinances, and keep the covenants, I pray through Jesus Christ, amen.