My brothers and sisters, I am grateful for the privilege and opportunity of being with you in this great world conference. I am thankful that I am alive to see this day of prophecy fulfilled in the mighty work of the Lord.There was never a brighter day than today in the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There was never a season when the work of the Lord prospered as it now prospers.There was never a time for greater rejoicing and gratitude on the part of Latter-day Saints everywhere.You heard yesterday the annual statistical report of the Church. To some, that may have seemed as a dull exercise in numbers. To me, the information given represents a miracle. At the end of the year, the membership of the Church moved comfortably past the six million mark. What a miraculous and remarkable flowering from that small seed planted April 6, 1830, in the log home of Peter Whitmer where six men formally organized the Church.As of the end of 1986, there were 1,622 organized stakes of Zion. What an advancement of geometric proportions from that first small stake organized in Kirtland in 1831!At the end of last year, there were more than 15,000 local congregations scattered through 122 colonies, territories, and sovereign nations. There were 193 organized missions and almost 32,000 missionaries serving therein. What a change from the single effort of Samuel Smith who, even before the Church was organized, put a few copies of the Book of Mormon in his knapsack and tramped the roads of western New York to leave a copy here and a copy there to touch for everlasting good the lives of those who read them.There were 5,000 copies of that first edition, made possible in their printing by the generosity of Martin Harris, who mortgaged a farm to pay for them. Last year there were 1,643,000 copies of this same book printed and distributed in English alone, with a total distribution in all languages approaching 3,000,000.Notwithstanding his problems, I have a great feeling of love for Martin Harris, who pledged the security of his lands to make possible the printing of this sacred record. It was an act of faith which has borne sweet fruit—the fruit of conversion and testimony and love for the Lord—in the lives of many millions over the earth. I am grateful for the repeated urging of our prophet of this day that we read this sacred record with a promise that in doing so we shall draw nearer to the Lord.Each week the Church Appropriations Committee meets to consider and authorize the expenditure of Church funds for the building of chapels and other purposes. The agenda is essentially a list of place-names, in terms of wards and stakes, together with figures of expenditure.A stranger looking upon that exercise, week after week, might regard it as a rather prosaic thing. But to me, it is a constantly renewing miracle. I have picked a short sample from a typical agenda: (1) a new building for the Mikkeli Ward of the Helsinki Finland Stake, (2) another for the Obrajes Ward of the La Paz Bolivia Miraflores Stake, (3) yet another for the Quilmes Oeste Ward of the Buenos Aires Argentina Quilmes Stake, (4) similarly for the Campo Grande First Ward of the Brazil São Paulo North Stake, (5) the Gympie Ward of the Brisbane Australia Stake, (6) the Bu Chon Ward of the Seoul Korea Kang Seo Stake, (7) the Kennedy First Ward of the Bogota Colombia Kennedy Stake, and (8) the Caurimare Ward of the Caracas Venezuela Stake. There were yet others. I have named these only to illustrate the growing universality of this work.And so it goes, week after week, in the great undertaking to provide housing for units of the Church far and near.The Kirtland Temple was the first structure built by the Church in this dispensation. That was only 151 years ago. What a miraculous change has come to pass!This morning I think of this Temple Square on which we meet in the Tabernacle. It has become one of the significant tourist attractions of the nation, with 2.6 million people coming to see us last year. Let me read to you a few comments left by some of these visitors in a single week.From a Presbyterian from Michigan: “I can see an absolute commitment to Jesus Christ in you people.”From a California Christian: “The impact Temple Square had on me is beyond belief. I must hear more about it.”From a Baptist pastor from California: “This visit is wonderful to me. I am amazed. May God bless you.”From a tourist from Argentina: “I need you.”From a Lutheran from Wisconsin: “Life had lost direction. I have read the Book of Mormon, and it has made a great impression on me.”From Australia: “I appreciate what your tour on the life of Christ has shown me.”From Illinois: “I hope you have a church in Chicago.”From a Baptist from Canada: “I want to have the inner peace with me all of the time as I felt it on Temple Square.”From a Church of England member: “I want to be part of this. I want to be a member of this church. Is this possible?”Is not all of this a miracle, my brethren and sisters? I mention in passing one other impressive and remarkable thing. This coming July will be a season of celebration for members of the Church in the British Isles. There will be commemorated the 150th anniversary of the opening of the British Mission. That, too, was an act of faith.The year was 1837. The Latter-day Saints were settled in two locations, most of them in and around Kirtland, Ohio, and others, some eight hundred miles distant in Missouri. It was a season of economic depression. Banks failed, fortunes were lost. Among the failures was the bank in Kirtland. A spirit of criticism and evil speaking threatened the Church. In those circumstances, Joseph Smith said to Heber C. Kimball, “Brother Heber, the Spirit of the Lord has whispered to me. ‘Let my servant Heber go to England and proclaim my gospel, and open the door of salvation to that nation’” (Orson F. Whitney,  [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1967], p. 104).It is difficult for us to comprehend the enormity of that call. Such a request from one ordinary man to another would have been incredible. It meant leaving a family destitute. It meant traveling to New York and crossing the sea when he had no money. It meant that a man with very little schooling, who had grown up and lived in frontier communities, would go to the great cities of the British Isles among a people known for their education and enlightenment.In his mind, Heber C. Kimball demurred. He thought of all of these problems. He then wrote in his journal:“However, all these considerations did not deter me from the path of duty; the moment I understood the will of my Heavenly Father, I felt a determination to go at all hazards, believing that He would support me by His almighty power, and endow me with every qualification that I needed; and although my family was dear to me, and I should have to leave them almost destitute, I felt that the cause of truth, the Gospel of Christ, outweighed every other consideration” ( p. 104).That undertaking will be much spoken of during these coming months. Suffice it to say that Heber C. Kimball and his six associates, at the call of Joseph Smith, left their homes, traveled over land and sea, and laid the foundation of a mighty work in the British Isles, from where the cause spread to Europe and subsequently across the world.What is all of this of which I speak? It is the lengthened shadow of the hand of God. It is the lengthened shadow of a mighty prophet, Joseph Smith, who was called and ordained to open this, the dispensation of the fulness of times spoken of in the scriptures. His numerous critics, now as in the past, spend their lives in trying to explain him on some basis other than the one which he gave.Of what credibility, I ask, is their estimate in comparison with the opinions of those who were at his side in laying the foundations of this ever-growing, ever-strengthening cause?Permit me to give you four or five testimonies of men who knew him, who worked with him, who prayed with him, who suffered with him, who forfeited comfort and wealth and ease because of their conviction that he was the anointed of the Almighty, a prophet in this generation.I begin with Brigham Young, who investigated for two years before he joined the Church. Said he concerning this leader:“Who can justly say aught against Joseph Smith? I was as well acquainted with him, as any man. I do not believe that his father and mother knew him any better than I did. I do not think that a man lives on the earth that knew him any better than I did; and I am bold to say that, Jesus Christ excepted, no better man ever lived or does live upon this earth. I am his witness” ( sel. John A. Widtsoe, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941, p. 459).John Taylor was a gifted and educated Englishman, a lay preacher of the gospel, a man of recognized intelligence. Said he:“I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years. I traveled with him; I have been with him in public and in private; I have associated with him in councils of all kinds; I have listened hundreds of times to his public teachings, and his advice to his friends and associates of a more private nature. … I was with him living and with him when he died; when he was murdered in Carthage jail by a ruthless mob with their faces painted black. I was there and was myself wounded in my body. I have seen him under all these various circumstances, and I testify before God, angels and men that he was a good, honorable, and virtuous man, that his private and public character was irreproachable, and that he lived and died a man of God” (in Ezra C. Dalby, “Joseph Smith, Prophet of God,” ms., talk delivered 12 December 1926, Salt Lake City, p. 13).Wilford Woodruff was not baptized until three or four years after the Church was organized. He went to Kirtland and there met Joseph Smith. He traveled with him to Missouri. He said:“We traveled a thousand miles together. There I had my first experience in the dealings of God with His Prophet. I understood perfectly well that he was a prophet. I read the vision, I read his revelations, and I knew they could not come from any man on the face of the earth but by the inspiration of Almighty God” (Matthias F. Cowley,  Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1964, p. 610).Orson Pratt, a man with a sharp and incisive mind, said:“In 1830 I became intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and continued intimately acquainted with him until the day of his death. I had the great privilege … of boarding … at his house, so that I not only knew him as a public teacher, but as a private citizen, and as a husband and father. I witnessed his earnest and humble devotions, both morning and evening in his family. I heard the words of eternal life flow from his lips, nourishing and soothing and comforting his family, neighbors and friends. I saw his countenance lighted up as the inspiration of the Holy Ghost rested upon him, dictating the great and most precious revelations now printed for our guide. …“I knew that he was a man of God. It was not a matter of opinion with me, for I received a testimony from the heavens concerning that matter” (in Ezra C. Dalby, p. 14).Such were the words of appraisal of four of those who knew him intimately and who would have given their lives for him.But there were others of his generation and not of his faith who offered appraisals of his character. Most quoted is Josiah Quincy, the gifted New Englander who visited Nauvoo forty-three days prior to the Prophet’s death and who subsequently became the distinguished mayor of Boston. His observation of the Prophet Joseph Smith bears repeating:“Born in the lowest ranks of poverty, without book-learning and with the homeliest of all human names, he had made himself at the age of thirty-nine a power upon earth. Of the multitudinous family of Smith, … none had so won human hearts and shaped human lives as this Joseph. His influence, whether for good or for evil, is potent to-day, and the end is not yet” (Josiah Quincy,  5th ed., Boston: Roberts Brothers, 1883, p. 400).One who loved him has said concerning this mighty prophet:“When a man gives his life for the cause he has advocated, he meets the highest test of his honesty and sincerity that his own or any future generation can in fairness ask. When he dies for the testimony he has borne, all malicious tongues should ever after be silent, and all voices hushed in reverence before a sacrifice so complete” (in Ezra C. Dalby, p. 1).This Book of Mormon, which he brought forth by the power and inspiration of the Almighty, this remarkable thing alone would be more than enough to guarantee his place in history forever. Add to this the marvelous revelations that came by the power of God through him, and we have a prophet whose stature looms above all his insignificant detractors, as a sainted giant looking down on a crowd of pygmies.To quote another, one who betrayed and offended him and later knew his forgiveness and love:Is it any wonder that this work moves on from nation to nation, from people to people? Is it any wonder that it grows in strength and numbers, in influence and interest, notwithstanding its critics and naysayers? It is the work of God restored to the earth through a prophet of whom Parley P. Pratt, his contemporary, said:“His works will live to endless ages, and unnumbered millions yet unborn will mention his name with honor, as a noble instrument in the hands of God, who, during his short and youthful career, laid the foundation of that kingdom spoken of by Daniel, the prophet, which should break in pieces all other kingdoms and stand forever” ( ed. Parley P. Pratt, 6th ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 46).As I said at the outset, I marvel at what is happening in the growth and expansion of this work. And yet I know that what we see today is but the scratching of the surface of far greater things yet to come. I testify of this by the power of the Holy Spirit. I testify of the living reality of God the Eternal Father and of the Lord Jesus Christ. I testify of the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of every other man who has succeeded in that prophetic calling. I testify of the truth and vitality of this church, in the name of Him whose name it bears and whose work it is, even Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brethren of the priesthood, it has been a joy to be with you this evening and to be instructed by these choice men of God. I have felt of your power and faith, and I commend you for your attendance here tonight.I rejoice in this opportunity to say a few words to you tonight. I feel impressed to speak to you about a priesthood program that has been inspired from its inception—a program that touches hearts, that changes lives, and that saves souls; a program that has the stamp of approval of our Father in Heaven; a program so vital that, if faithfully followed, it will help to spiritually renew the Church and exalt its individual members and families.I am speaking about priesthood home teaching. With all my heart, I pray that you will understand, by the Spirit, exactly my feelings about home teaching.Brethren, home teaching is not just another program. It is the priesthood way of watching over the Saints and accomplishing the mission of the Church. Home teaching is not just an assignment. It is a sacred calling.Home teaching is not to be undertaken casually. A home teaching call is to be accepted as if extended to you personally by the Lord Jesus Christ.The Savior Himself was a teacher. The only perfect man to walk the face of the earth was a humble, dedicated, inspired teacher who brought to His followers salvation and exaltation.Oh, that all the brethren of the Church would catch that vision of home teaching!Tonight I am not teaching new doctrine, but I am reaffirming old doctrine. Quoting from section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants, revealed to the Prophet Joseph in April of 1830, the Lord declared to the priesthood:“Watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them;“And see that there is no iniquity in the church. …“And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty” “And visit the house of each member, exhorting them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties” Brethren, that is priesthood home teaching.This kind of teaching was done in Christ’s time by His early disciples. It was practiced in Book of Mormon times. In the first chapter of Jacob, we read:“For I, Jacob, and my brother Joseph had been consecrated priests and teachers of this people, by the hand of Nephi.“And we did magnify our office unto the Lord, taking upon us the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon our own heads if we did not teach them the word of God with all diligence” From the beginning of this inspired program in our day, leaders of the Church have emphasized over and over again the importance of home teaching.President Marion G. Romney, in general conference, declared:“Home teaching, properly functioning, brings to ‘the house of each member’ two priesthood bearers divinely commissioned and authoritatively called into the service by their priesthood leader and bishop. These Home Teachers—priesthood bearers—carry the heavy and glorious responsibility of representing the Lord Jesus Christ in looking after the welfare of each Church member. They are to encourage and inspire every member to discharge his duty, both family and Church” (address given at general conference home teaching meeting, 8 Apr. 1966, p. 3).President David O. McKay stated: “Home teaching is one of our most urgent and most rewarding opportunities to nurture and inspire, to counsel and direct our Father’s children. … It is a divine service, a divine call. It is our duty as Home Teachers to carry the divine spirit into every home and heart. To love the work and do our best will bring unbounded peace, joy, and satisfaction to a noble, dedicated teacher of God’s children” (quoted by Marion G. Romney, in address at general conference home teaching meeting, 8 Apr. 1966, p. 7).My good brethren of the Melchizedek Priesthood and the Aaronic Priesthood, home teaching is an inspired program.It is the heart of caring, of loving, of reaching out to the one—both the active and the less active.It is priesthood compassionate service.It is how we express our faith in practical works.It is one of the tests of true discipleship.It is the heart of the activation effort of the Church.It is a calling that helps to fulfill the scriptural injunction: “Out of small things proceedeth that which is great” There is no greater Church calling than that of a home teacher. There is no greater Church service rendered to our Father in Heaven’s children than the service rendered by a humble, dedicated, committed home teacher.There are three fundamentals that are essential to effective home teaching. May I discuss these briefly.First, Really know them! You can’t serve well those you don’t know well. President Marion G. Romney emphasized this:“Each pair of home teachers should become [personally] acquainted with every child, youth and adult in the family to whom they are assigned. …“To perform fully our duty as a Home Teacher we should be continually aware of the attitudes, the activities and interests, the problems, the employment, the health, the happiness, the plans and purposes, the physical, temporal, and spiritual needs and circumstances of everyone—of every child, every youth, and every adult in the homes and families who have been placed in our trust and care as a bearer of the priesthood, and as a representative of the bishop” (priesthood home teaching seminar, 9 Aug. 1963, pp. 3, 4).And the key to effectively working with the family is to be close to the father. Know his righteous desires for his family and help him to realize them. And I would urge you to do the little things, the small things that mean so much to a family. For example, know the names of all the family members. Be aware of birthdays, blessings, baptisms, and marriages. On occasion, write an appropriate note of commendation or make a phone call congratulating a member of the family on a special achievement or accomplishment.With your home teaching companion, regularly review pages 8 and 9 of the  for some excellent suggestions on how to be helpful to those you home teach.Above all, be a genuine friend to the individuals and families you teach. As the Savior declared to us, “I will call you friends, for you are my friends”  A friend makes more than a dutiful visit each month. A friend is more concerned about helping people than getting credit. A friend cares. A friend loves. A friend listens, and a friend reaches out.We remember the story President Romney used to tell about the so-called home teacher who once called at the Romney home on a cold night. He kept his hat in his hand and shifted nervously when invited to sit down and give his message. “Well, I’ll tell you, Brother Romney,” he responded, “it’s cold outside, and I left my car engine running so it wouldn’t stop. I just stopped in so I could tell the bishop I made my calls.”We can do better than that, brethren—much better.The second fundamental to effective home teaching is to  And know that it is the particular message the Lord would have you give to the families and individuals you have been asked to serve.Home teachers should have a purpose or goal in mind and should plan each visit to help meet that purpose. Before making their visits, home teaching partners should meet together to pray, to review instructions from their leaders, to go over the message they will take to the families, and to discuss any special needs.Home teachers should present an important message that they have prepared or that they bring from priesthood leaders. We strongly recommend that the home teachers use the monthly message from the First Presidency printed in the  and the Church’s international magazines. The head of the family may also request a special message for family members.And, as a vital part of that message, whenever possible, read together the scriptures with the families you home teach. Make this a regular part of your visit. Especially read together verses from the Book of Mormon that will fortify your message, always remembering the words of the Prophet Joseph, that “a man would get nearer to God by abiding by [the] precepts [of the Book of Mormon], than by any other book”  Your families need the continual strength of the Book of Mormon.May our message be like Alma instructed the teachers of his day: “He commanded them that they should teach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets” Carry the right message, and then teach with the Spirit. The Spirit is the single most important ingredient in this work. Through the Spirit, the individuals and families you teach will know of your love and concern for them and will also know of the truthfulness of your message and will have a desire to follow it.As home teachers, live the kind of lives yourselves that will invite the Spirit. Live the gospel so you can effectively teach it.Alma instructs us:“Trust no one to be your teacher nor your minister, except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his commandments. …“Therefore [Alma] consecrated all their priests and all their teachers; and none were consecrated except they were just men.“Therefore they did watch over their people, and did nourish them with things pertaining to righteousness” Also remember that, whenever possible, praying in the home should be a part of every home teaching visit. As you may be called upon to pray, pray with the Spirit, pray with real intent, and invoke the Lord’s blessings upon the individuals and families you are teaching.Yes, the second fundamental to effective home teaching is to know well your message, teach it by the Spirit, and make praying and reading the scriptures an integral part of that message.May I now suggest the third and final ingredient to effective home teaching—and that is to Do not settle for mediocrity in this great priesthood program of home teaching. Be an excellent home teacher in every facet of the work. Be a real shepherd of your flock. Make your home teaching visit early in the month, allowing enough time for additional follow-up contacts as necessary.Whenever possible, make a definite appointment for each visit. Let your families know when you are coming, and respect their time.Melchizedek Priesthood bearers, when you have an Aaronic Priesthood young man as your companion, train him well. Use him effectively in working with your families and in teaching them. Have these young men feel of your love of home teaching so that when they become senior companions they will love their callings and magnify them as you have.Remember, both the quality and quantity of home teaching are essential in being an effective home teacher. You should have quality visits, but you should also make contact with each of your families each month. As shepherds to all of your families, both active and less active, you should not be content with only reaching the ninety and nine. Your goal should be 100 percent home teaching every month.So that this can be quality home teaching, we urge priesthood leaders not to assign more than three to five families or individuals to a pair of home teachers. This may be a challenge in some cases, but we would invite you to give prayerful consideration to these assignments.Keeping faithful track of each member you are called to home teach is essential. The Book of Mormon beautifully teaches this principle. In the sixth chapter of Moroni we read:“And after they had been received unto baptism, … they were numbered among the people of the church of Christ; and their names were taken, that they might be remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, to keep them continually watchful unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits of Christ, who was the author and the finisher of their faith” Brethren, may we remember all of our individuals and families and “number” them each month and nourish them by the good word of God to keep them in the right way.We call upon quorum leaders to conduct spiritual monthly home teaching interviews, receive a report on the home teachers’ activities, evaluate current needs, make assignments for the coming month, and teach, strengthen, and inspire the home teachers in their sacred callings. Such interviews with home teachers provide a setting for leaders to measure progress and better serve the individuals and members they have been called to serve.May I close by bearing you my personal testimony regarding home teaching. I can remember, as if it were yesterday, growing up as a young boy in Whitney, Idaho. We were a farm family, and when we boys were out working in the field, I remember Father calling to us in a shrill voice from the barnyard: “Tie up your teams, boys, and come on in. The ward teachers are here.” Regardless of what we were doing, that was the signal to assemble in the sitting room to hear the ward teachers.These two faithful priesthood bearers would come each month either by foot or by horseback. We always knew they would come. I can’t remember one miss. And we would have a great visit. They would stand behind a chair and talk to the family. They would go around the circle and ask each child how he or she was doing and if we were doing our duty. Sometimes Mother and Father would prime us before the ward teachers came so we would have the right answers. But it was an important time for us as a family. They always had a message, and it was always a good one.We have refined home teaching a lot since those early days in Whitney. But it is still basically the same. The same principles are involved: caring, reaching out, teaching by the Spirit, leaving an important message each month, and having a concern and love for each member of the family.God bless the home teachers of this Church. You are in the front line of defense to watch over and strengthen the individual and the family unit.Understand the sacredness of your calling and the divine nature of your responsibility.Know well those you are to home teach. Know well your message, and deliver it with the Spirit. And finally, truly magnify your calling as a home teacher.As you do this, I promise you the blessings of heaven and the indescribable joy that comes from helping to touch hearts, change lives, and save souls. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.