To attend this conference, we have traveled by many modes of transportation. Some came on the ground, in cars or buses or trains. Others came by airplane. But whatever the means, we have all arrived at a common destination.There is something else that we all had in common on this journey—something that we all needed in order to arrive here safely. Those of us who came by plane were reminded of it very carefully by the airline staff. Upon boarding we were pleasantly greeted with “Welcome aboard.” Then carefully prepared instructions were given: “In case of a loss of cabin pressure, oxygen masks will automatically appear. Place your own mask over your nose and mouth first, then help others who require assistance, such as children.”The oxygen in air is of vital importance. Our physical bodies are completely dependent upon the continuous supply of this most precious commodity. The lack of it for even minutes or seconds can do severe damage to our minds and bodies. Prolonged lack of air can end our mortal lives. But only those of us who traveled by airplane had to be reminded about it, because air, under normal circumstances, is all about us. All we have to do is allow it to flow into our lungs and feed the necessary oxygen to vital parts of our bodies.Yet even with the ample supply of this life-prolonging substance, after three score and ten years, or some other measure of time, our mortal body ceases to function. What is there that transcends this mortality? What is taken to the other side? In the Book of Mormon Amulek teaches us:“That same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world” What is to the spirit as air is to the body? A sure knowledge of the Father and his Son:“This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” Our eternal life is as dependent upon spiritual nutrients as our mortal life is upon air. The most important spiritual nutrients are knowledge of God and knowledge of his Son. We know the Father by knowing the Son. What is the best source on the face of the earth to learn about the Son? It is in studying another testament of him, commonly known as the Book of Mormon, and then having the Holy Ghost bear witness to you that it is true.Many testimonies have been and will be borne in this conference to truths from the Book of Mormon, Another Testament of Jesus Christ. We are blessed with the prophets’ utterances in the Old Testament of Jesus Christ as they foresaw his coming. We are doubly blessed with the New Testament, wherein he appeared in the flesh and many knew him. We are triply blessed with another testament of him. My wife, Helen, and I have read the Book of Mormon several times in the past few months. We have asked ourselves, “If this is another testament of Jesus Christ, how does it perform this task?”We determined to note every reference to the Savior as we prayerfully prepared ourselves for another excursion through this special witness. We had just turned the very first page in this sacred record, and the curtain began to open to a panorama of testimony that Jesus is the Christ.Here is the first scene. Lehi, praying with all his heart, had this experience:“There came a pillar of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and heard much. …“And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at noon-day.“And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.“And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him a book, and bade him that he should read” What was Lehi’s reaction to this heaven-sent scene? “He testified that the things which he saw and heard, and also the things which he read in the book, manifested plainly of the coming of a Messiah, and also the redemption of the world” We were still in the first chapter of 1 Nephi, having barely begun our quest. As we continued, verse after verse, chapter after chapter bore witness of his reality.Still in 1 Nephi, but in chapter 13,  we discovered, in just sixteen verses, twenty-two references to the Lamb, another name for the Lord, the Redeemer, the Messiah, Jesus the Christ.Time dictates that we must now pass by dozens, yes hundreds of references to this Savior of mankind found in this sacred record. Six hundred years escape us. Now we hold time still. We stop to drink deeply and spiritually meditate as we study this scene:“A great multitude gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple. …“And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom the sign had been given concerning his death”  They heard a voice. Again they heard a voice, and they understood it not.“And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it, and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came.“And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them:“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him” And the Savior responded to the invitation of the Father to speak in this manner:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.“And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto them after his ascension into heaven.“And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying:“Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.“And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come” The heavens were opened and had kissed the earth with certain knowledge. Then the Savior continued:“And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me. … I bear record that the Father commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me.“And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God” Once again we must pass by many references and several hundred years of sacred history. Now the final page of this record, which speaks with a familiar voice:“Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in nowise deny the power of God. …“If ye by the grace of God are perfect in Christ, and deny not his power, then are ye sanctified in Christ by the grace of God, through the shedding of the blood of Christ, which is in the covenant of the Father unto the remission of your sins, that ye become holy, without spot” By plane or car or bus or train, we traveled safely to this common destination. There is another common destination that beckons us—eternal life with our Father in Heaven. And just as during our physical journey our bodies were dependent on air, so on our spiritual journey we are dependent on spiritual nutrients.On the journey to eternal life, we pleasantly bid you, “Welcome aboard.”Fill your spiritual lungs with the elements of eternal life by constantly inhaling the truths in the Book of Mormon, Another Testament of Jesus Christ, so that you may arrive safely once again in the presence of our Eternal Father.The Savior lives today. This I witness to you in the very sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.Since the beginning, truth and knowledge about ourselves and our environment have been a quest for the natural man and have led him to great scientific discoveries and also to debatable theories. There seems to be no limit to his questions, and the proposed answers that might have been true yesterday will probably change today and again tomorrow.This quest is not limited only to science, but to every aspect of our lives. More than ever before, our values and roles as men, women, and children are being challenged and scrutinized—supposedly to liberate individuals from anxiety, bondage, fears, and bigotry, and to give them a feeling of security. It seems that the natural man always wants to secure his truths and knowledge to fit his own carnal security.Submerged by this continual flow of conflicting reconsideration of every possible value, one should not be surprised to see that these constant changes bring a state of constant insecurity rather than security in the lives of common people to the point where many, especially the youth, have abdicated their responsibilities, and many have even given up their lives. What a paradox!In our lives of trials and tribulations and constant changes, it is obvious that we all seek for some measure of security—something steady and unchanging to cling to—and we have surrounded ourselves with all kinds of devices or organizations that carry the word  For example, we use security blankets to soothe and comfort our children. We install security systems to protect our homes and our personal possessions. The Social Security system was created as a protection against temporal storms. In the political arena, the Security Council of the United Nations attempts to maintain peace among the nations of the world. At times we are amused by this all-consuming search for so-called security, but we require it and are willing to pay for it. However, despite all our efforts, we still do not gain the  security that we seek. Is it because we put our trust in the arm of flesh?Security is an essential ingredient in our lives. It includes knowledge about our true identity and the purpose of life, how to interact with others, and how to face our daily adversities and challenges. It can be a matter of life and death. Every day of our lives we are faced with what is good and what is evil, what is right and what is wrong. From childhood to old age, if we don’t feel secure or if we live by deceiving carnal security, our attitudes, goals, and interrelationships with others will suffer. When we gain a feeling of security from loving parents as a child and continue on to experience the security enjoyed by obeying laws, we bless our own lives and the lives of others. The real issue, then, has always been where and how to find righteous security as opposed to carnal security. For our purpose here, we will call righteous security spiritual security.Spiritual security provides interesting advantages: you do not have to pay taxes on it, it does not change, it does not take away your liberty or free agency, and it brings positive, comforting, spiritual, and eternal results.Security cannot be guaranteed because free agency also brings insecurity, and spiritual security does not automatically suppress or eliminate danger, oppression, or opposition.Then how can we gain spiritual security? The very simple answer is perhaps too simple for too many: first, turn to the Lord. King Limhi said, “But if ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, and put your trust in him, and serve him with all diligence of mind, if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and pleasure, deliver you out of bondage” Second, trust the Lord. As Nephi of old said:“O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever. I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh. Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm.“Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh” To turn to the Lord and to trust him is to learn from his revelations. Spiritual security comes from revelation that unveils the true nature of Deity. The kind of God in whom we believe generally determines the kind of people we are and will become. Without revelation about the true nature of Deity, the natural man will walk “in his own way, and after the image of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world” Spiritual security is derived from revelation describing a plan of salvation for our benefit. “God conversed with men, and made known unto them the plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation of the world”  The plan of salvation gives a direction to be followed, a sure way to strengthen ourselves against the pitfalls of the world.Spiritual security is revelation that tells us about the source of the plan of salvation: Jesus Christ.“And we talk of Christ,” said Nephi, “we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins”  The source is identified, clarified, and verified. We do not need to seek elsewhere.Spiritual security comes from revelation that relieves the anxiety of death. “But there is a resurrection, therefore the grave hath no victory, and the sting of death is swallowed up in Christ”  How reassuring it is to know the reality not only of the Resurrection, but also of eternal life.“And what is it that ye shall hope for? Behold I say unto you that ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection, to be raised unto life eternal” Spiritual security is enhanced as a result of revelation that promises an unchanging, everlasting, eternal way of life.“For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of changing?”  There is no need for daily heartrending revisions or reconsideration of our values.Spiritual security increases because revelation teaches us about our true identity and our relationship with God. From the beginning this was revealed to Adam: “Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God”  Then it was revealed to others, such as Moses: “Thou art my son”  “Thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior”  In our day it has also been revealed to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and to many others: “Behold, I say unto you, my son” Knowing who we really are prepares us to use that knowledge to face temptations, to resist them, and then to act righteously. Moses, knowing he was a son of God, as revealed to him, told Satan, “Get thee hence, Satan; deceive me not; for God said unto me: Thou art after the similitude of mine Only Begotten”  The result did not wait, as the Lord called him, saying, “Blessed art thou, Moses, for I, the Almighty, have chosen thee, and thou shalt be made stronger than many waters; for they shall obey thy command as if thou wert God”  The spiritual security becomes evident as the Lord added, “I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days” Spiritual security is edified by revelation that describes the roles of men and women. After the Fall, Heavenly Father addressed Adam and Eve personally and directly and instructed them about their roles. Relationships, gender, behavior, marriage—all matters related to males and females were and still are clearly defined to strengthen us in our divine roles.Spiritual security is strengthened by revelation that explains the results of observing the commandments. “And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness” Finally, spiritual security is reinforced step-by-step by revelation, and this security becomes power as we receive, one by one, the ordinances of salvation. The ordinances of salvation represent covenants with the Lord. John A. Widtsoe said, “When ordinances are performed, blessings are received which give power to man, power that belongs to the everyday affairs of this life as to a future life. It is not merely knowledge; not merely consecration; not merely a labeling, so to speak; but the actual conferring of power that may be used every day” ( ed. G. Homer Durham, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969, p. 161).Yesterday’s revelations gave security to the people about the coming of Jesus Christ and the assurance that the words of the Lord spoken by holy prophets are always fulfilled. Today’s revelations in the Book of Mormon, to which I have purposely referred, carry the same promise. President Ezra Taft Benson has declared: “God expects us to use the Book of Mormon in several ways. We are to read it ourselves. …“We are to use the Book of Mormon as the basis for our teaching. …“We are to liken the Book of Mormon scriptures unto us ‘that it might be for our profit and learning’ “We are to use the Book of Mormon in handling objections to the Church. …“We … have to be … the tellers and testifiers, of the Book of Mormon unto the ends of the earth” (May 1975, pp. 64–65).Because of its message for our day, the Book of Mormon helps us to respond to the call of God and of a living prophet to become partners in the plan of salvation and to build spiritual security by helping us to resist and combat the false concepts and evil influences of our time that bring insecurity, unhappiness, and destruction of our ethics and moral values.To turn to the Lord and to trust him through revelation will help any individual, at any time, in any part of the world, understand and interpret correctly and righteously life’s experiences from the only true perspective, which is the Lord’s perspective revealed to man. To turn to the Lord and to trust his revelations is to live in such a way as to resist the floods and the winds of doubt and uncertainty.It is truly the foundation of our commitment to serve and to make the right choices. It also brings true security and sets forth the promises given by Jesus Christ when we come unto him. His yoke indeed becomes easy and his burden light.I testify of the power of personal revelation and of the scriptures in my life. I know that God lives and that President Ezra Taft Benson is a living prophet. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.