My dear brothers and sisters, as we approach the Easter season, our minds and thoughts turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, His crucifixion, resurrection, and atoning sacrifice for the sins of the world.John the Baptist, who was commissioned to be the forerunner of the Savior in his day, declared that our Father in Heaven had not forgotten His children on this earth. He said:“The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.“He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him” The coming of the Savior was prophesied by many prophets in the Bible and in the Book of Mormon. The Old Testament prophet Isaiah predicted the coming of the Savior’s birth when he said:“Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel” “For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace” The Book of Mormon, as another testament of Jesus Christ, records that an angel appeared unto King Benjamin and declared the glad tidings of great joy, 124 years before the coming of Christ. The angel said:“For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases. …“And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary” Throughout the thousand years of Book of Mormon history, many prophets bore solemn witness of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Son of God, of His premortal godhood, of His earthly ministry—His suffering, His death, His resurrection—and of the plan of salvation by which we can make His atonement effective in our lives. These prophets spoke from pure knowledge, knowledge that came by personal visitations of the Savior to them, by the testimony of angels who spoke with them, by visions, and by the power of the Holy Ghost. They knew whereof they spoke and could not be shaken from their testimonies.Let us consider the example of Jacob. Jacob was confronted by Sherem, who denied Christ and contended with Jacob and demanded a sign [see  Sherem preached with much flattery and much power of speech, questioning Jacob’s testimony. Jacob said:“And he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwithstanding the many revelations and the many things which I had seen concerning these things; for I truly had seen angels, and they had ministered unto me. And also, I had heard the voice of the Lord speaking unto me in very word, from time to time; wherefore, I could not be shaken” President Ezra Taft Benson, our beloved prophet, has encouraged us to study the Book of Mormon, for, as he said, “the book that will get a man ‘nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book’ needs to be studied constantly.”I hope and pray that we will follow the admonition of our beloved prophet, President Benson, and constantly study the Book of Mormon. We all need the assurance that we are living in obedience to the commandments of God so that we can receive the Spirit and be guided by it in our daily lives.The Savior, as the Son of God, showed you and me the great example of obedience in keeping the commandments of His Father. Nephi tells us that Christ was baptized so men can follow in His footsteps and receive the Holy Ghost:“Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments” Several weeks ago I was assigned to a stake conference in Provo. The Sunday morning welfare meeting was scheduled to begin at 7:30 , so it was necessary that I leave home about 6:15  Just as I came to an intersection before turning onto the on-ramp to enter the freeway, the light changed to red. As I stopped for the light at that early hour, now about 6:30 , there were no cars in sight. Mine was the only car parked at the stop light.The thought did cross my mind that if I ignored the red light, no one would be hurt or endangered, for not a car was in sight at that early hour. Nevertheless, I waited out the light change and proceeded on the green light. If I had turned left, no one would have known, but I would know that I was breaking the traffic code, and surely the Lord would know. I was reminded of the scripture which says:“Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin” Brothers and sisters, oftentimes we are tempted to compromise with circumstances of the moment, but we must exercise care and live the principles of righteous living at all times so we will know what to do when called upon to make a decision of far greater importance. We must always be examples to the world as members of the Lord’s kingdom and keep the laws of the land and the laws of God.The Lord said in a latter-day revelation:“Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great.“Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days” Recently, as a member of the Utah South Area Presidency, I was invited to participate in an institute program with men and women at the Utah State penitentiary. As I visited these men and women, my heart went out to them, for they are all our Heavenly Father’s children. Many are there because of the wrong choices they made in life when temptation was put before them. I saw pain and suffering in their eyes, and yet, as I think of their loved ones—parents, brothers, sisters, wives, children—they, too, have suffered much and perhaps are still faced with more suffering in the future. President Kimball said we should hate the sin but love the sinner. He further stated that suffering can make saints of people as they learn patience, long-suffering, and self-mastery.He also said the sufferings of our Savior were part of his education. “Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;“And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him” Elder James E. Talmage wrote, “No pang that is suffered by man or woman upon the earth will be without its compensating effect … if it be met with patience” (as quoted in Spencer W. Kimball, “Tragedy or Destiny,” in  Provo: Brigham Young University, pp. 5–6).On the other hand, wrong choices can crush us with their mighty impact, if we yield to weaknesses, complaints, and criticisms.In closing, may I quote Orson F. Whitney, who said:“No pain that we suffer, no trial that we experience is wasted. It ministers to our education, to the development of such qualities as patience, faith, fortitude and humility. All that we suffer and all that we endure, especially when we endure it patiently, builds up our characters, purifies our hearts, expands our souls, and makes us more tender and charitable, more worthy to be called the children of God … and it is through sorrow and suffering, toil and tribulation, that we gain the education that we come here to acquire and which will make us more like our Father and Mother in heaven” (as quoted in “Tragedy or Destiny,” p. 6).The Lord, who suffered much for the sins of all mankind and was crucified and resurrected, said:“If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love.“These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.“This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The people of each dispensation of time have received the teaching and admonition of living prophets to care for one another.The sons of Mosiah “were desirous that salvation should be declared to every creature, for they could not bear that any human soul should perish; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should endure endless torment did cause them to quake and tremble” This spirit of being anxiously engaged in caring about those who are not partaking of the blessings of the gospel is not confined to those who are called as shepherds but should permeate the lives of all of God’s children.True shepherds nourish and care for each member of the flock and keep them in remembrance. They do not simply number them. Shepherds know and care for their flock. A shepherd cannot rest when even one of the flock is lost.Some years ago, as a young man, I had an opportunity to work summers on a ranch with my wise Uncle Frank, who taught me an important lesson about shepherding. He described to me how lambs are enticed and led away from the safety of their mothers’ sides and the flock that loves and cares for them.Cunning coyotes send their pups to play near the flock—running, rollicking, tumbling—it  so inviting to the little lambs. The frolicking pups look like they are having so much fun that the lambs are enticed to wander from the protective environment of the flock and their mothers’ nurturing sides. In their innocence, they fail to observe that the adult coyotes are moving in a circle ready to pounce and cut them off from the flock, ultimately killing and devouring them.This is also Satan’s way. He uses our free agency to entice us with apparent “good times.” Soon we may become entrapped and, if not eventually brought back to the flock, we will not be able to go to the temple, enter into the covenants, and receive the ordinances necessary to attain eternal life, that we might live in the presence of God the Father and Jesus Christ.Some of us have strayed at one time or another. Some have repented and come back; but some, for one reason or another, are still looking for the right moment, the right person, or the right set of circumstances to come back.As member shepherds of our Father in Heaven’s flock, we should not judge why some have strayed, but rather should try unceasingly to bring them back again into the fold, knowing Jesus can heal them when none other can.In 1829, the Lord instructed us through his first latter-day prophet, Joseph Smith, to “remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; … And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth!”  We need to be as Lehi, who said in Book of Mormon times, “I have none other object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls” In this, the last dispensation, we have prophets to guide and direct us with their counsel.A significant proclamation was given by the First Presidency at Christmastime in 1985. It was an invitation to come back. Because of the significance of this special message from prophets in our day, please let me share some of the key admonitions that apply to each of us as we serve one another.The message from the First Presidency, in part, said:“We are aware of some who are inactive, of others who have become critical and are prone to find fault, and of those who have been disfellowshipped or excommunicated because of serious transgressions.“To all such  We are  in the spirit of Him who said: ‘I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men.’ “ To those who have ceased activity and to those who have become critical, we say, ‘Come back. Come back and feast at the table of the Lord, and taste again the sweet and satisfying fruits of fellowship with the Saints.’“We are confident that many have longed to return, but have felt awkward about doing so. “We know there are many who carry heavy burdens of guilt and bitterness. To such we say, ‘Set them aside and give heed to the words of the Savior: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“‘“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“‘“For my yoke is easy and my burden is light”’ “We plead with you. We pray for you. We invite and welcome you with love and appreciation” (Mar. 1986, p. 88; italics added).For you and me, as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, our responsibilities are clear; we are to:We must do as Jude, the brother of James, admonished: italics added).There are principles that will help us to “have compassion, making a difference.” These principles are encompassed in Luke, chapter 15, where Jesus used three parables to give us examples of the importance He placed on finding those who are lost and rendering “compassion, making a difference.”In the parable of the lost sheep, the shepherd went after the lost sheep and searched until he found the lost lamb. He then returned, rejoicing (see In the parable of the lost coin, the widow lit a candle, which gave light, and swept every corner to find the lost coin. She rejoiced upon finding it (see Both of these parables are examples of action taken to search, light up the darkness, and sweep until a treasured possession or lost soul is found and returned to a rejoicing home.On the other hand, in the parable of the prodigal son, a caring father patiently waited for his son to “come to himself” (see  He provided a loving atmosphere at home to welcome his son with open arms and willing hands so that they might rejoice together. The key is that the son knew that upon his return he would be loved and welcomed home by his father.Coming home can have its challenges, too. When the prodigal son came home, his faithful brother was jealous of the attention extended to his repentant brother. The faithful brother was judgmental and had not developed spiritually enough to rejoice at his brother’s return. The father had to reassure the faithful son of his love.Now the returning prodigal son had a chance to practice the same forgiving and accepting attitude toward his jealous brother that he was experiencing from his father. Those who return need a forgiving attitude toward others’ faults, or complete repentance is not possible.If we want the Lord and others to forgive our faults, we must be forgiving of others. Those who “come back” must not be judgmental, but must remember that none of us is perfect either.As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, how can we develop a caring environment in our homes and meetinghouses that will give comfort to those who want to come back, knowing they will be welcomed and loved upon their return?A good example of compassion and service making a difference is the example of Don and Marian Summers, which represents the experiences of many other missionary couples. While serving in England, they were asked to serve the last six months of their mission in the Swindon Branch to teach and assist in activating members. For eighty years Swindon had been a branch with a faithful few and with many good members becoming less active.Don and Marian recently wrote me, recalling the following:“Our first visit to Swindon Branch was a bit disheartening as we met with the Saints in a cold, rented hall. The congregation numbered seventeen, including President and Sister Hales and four missionaries. Still wearing our winter coats, we all huddled around a small, inadequate heater while we listened to a Sunday School lesson.”The letter continued:“A branch member approached me one day: ‘Elder Summers, can I give you a bit of advice? Never mention the word  to the Swindon members; they really don’t believe in it, and all you will do is upset them.’”Brother Summers said, “We did teach tithing and all the other gospel principles. With example and the encouragement of a branch president, there was a change of heart, and faith and activity started to increase. The membership records were completely updated as we visited every member’s home. When the leaders started caring, the members began to respond, and a whole new spirit pervaded the branch. The members became excited again about the gospel and helping one another.“Firesides were held in our homes and we worked closely with stake and other proselyting missionaries. We made a promise to the Lord that we would not let one new or reactivated member fall into inactivity while we were in Swindon.“One young couple had a difficult adjustment to make as their customs, manners, and dress were different. They became offended at suggestions for changes. The couple twice wrote to the bishop [since by then it was a ward] and asked to have their names removed from the Church records. In the last letter they forbade any of the members to visit them, so Marian and I went to the florist and purchased a beautiful plant of chrysanthemums and had it delivered to the young couple. It was a simple note: ‘’ Signed, Swindon Ward.“The next Sunday was fast and testimony meeting and our last Sunday in Swindon. There were 103 members in attendance compared to seventeen six months before. The young couple was there and, in bearing his testimony, the husband thanked the Swindon Ward for not giving up on them.”Each of us can have similar experiences in our local wards and branches by working with and loving those who are less active. What a joy it is to give “compassion, making a difference” to those who may be ready to find themselves and then want to come back.Concerning those who were  numbered among His people, Jesus said to the Nephites:“Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out of your synagogues, or your places of worship, for unto such shall ye continue to minister;  and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and  and  of bringing salvation unto them”  italics added).Brothers and sisters, may we leave this conference with a renewed determination, through our prayers of faith and “compassion, making a difference,” to bring at least one precious soul back to salvation and exaltation. May the prayer of Alma also be our prayer:“O Lord, wilt thou comfort my soul, and give unto me success, and also my fellow laborers who are with me. …“Wilt thou grant unto them that they may have strength, that they may bear their afflictions which shall come upon them. …“O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that we may have success in bringing them again unto thee in Christ.“Behold, O Lord, their souls are precious, and many of them are our brethren; therefore, ” “We love you; we miss you; we need you. Please come back.” Come back to go to the temple, enter into the covenants, and receive the ordinances of eternal salvation. In the name of our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, amen.