Since the beginning, truth and knowledge about ourselves and our environment have been a quest for the natural man and have led him to great scientific discoveries and also to debatable theories. There seems to be no limit to his questions, and the proposed answers that might have been true yesterday will probably change today and again tomorrow.This quest is not limited only to science, but to every aspect of our lives. More than ever before, our values and roles as men, women, and children are being challenged and scrutinized—supposedly to liberate individuals from anxiety, bondage, fears, and bigotry, and to give them a feeling of security. It seems that the natural man always wants to secure his truths and knowledge to fit his own carnal security.Submerged by this continual flow of conflicting reconsideration of every possible value, one should not be surprised to see that these constant changes bring a state of constant insecurity rather than security in the lives of common people to the point where many, especially the youth, have abdicated their responsibilities, and many have even given up their lives. What a paradox!In our lives of trials and tribulations and constant changes, it is obvious that we all seek for some measure of security—something steady and unchanging to cling to—and we have surrounded ourselves with all kinds of devices or organizations that carry the word  For example, we use security blankets to soothe and comfort our children. We install security systems to protect our homes and our personal possessions. The Social Security system was created as a protection against temporal storms. In the political arena, the Security Council of the United Nations attempts to maintain peace among the nations of the world. At times we are amused by this all-consuming search for so-called security, but we require it and are willing to pay for it. However, despite all our efforts, we still do not gain the  security that we seek. Is it because we put our trust in the arm of flesh?Security is an essential ingredient in our lives. It includes knowledge about our true identity and the purpose of life, how to interact with others, and how to face our daily adversities and challenges. It can be a matter of life and death. Every day of our lives we are faced with what is good and what is evil, what is right and what is wrong. From childhood to old age, if we don’t feel secure or if we live by deceiving carnal security, our attitudes, goals, and interrelationships with others will suffer. When we gain a feeling of security from loving parents as a child and continue on to experience the security enjoyed by obeying laws, we bless our own lives and the lives of others. The real issue, then, has always been where and how to find righteous security as opposed to carnal security. For our purpose here, we will call righteous security spiritual security.Spiritual security provides interesting advantages: you do not have to pay taxes on it, it does not change, it does not take away your liberty or free agency, and it brings positive, comforting, spiritual, and eternal results.Security cannot be guaranteed because free agency also brings insecurity, and spiritual security does not automatically suppress or eliminate danger, oppression, or opposition.Then how can we gain spiritual security? The very simple answer is perhaps too simple for too many: first, turn to the Lord. King Limhi said, “But if ye will turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart, and put your trust in him, and serve him with all diligence of mind, if ye do this, he will, according to his own will and pleasure, deliver you out of bondage” Second, trust the Lord. As Nephi of old said:“O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever. I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh. Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh his arm.“Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh” To turn to the Lord and to trust him is to learn from his revelations. Spiritual security comes from revelation that unveils the true nature of Deity. The kind of God in whom we believe generally determines the kind of people we are and will become. Without revelation about the true nature of Deity, the natural man will walk “in his own way, and after the image of his own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world” Spiritual security is derived from revelation describing a plan of salvation for our benefit. “God conversed with men, and made known unto them the plan of redemption, which had been prepared from the foundation of the world”  The plan of salvation gives a direction to be followed, a sure way to strengthen ourselves against the pitfalls of the world.Spiritual security is revelation that tells us about the source of the plan of salvation: Jesus Christ.“And we talk of Christ,” said Nephi, “we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins”  The source is identified, clarified, and verified. We do not need to seek elsewhere.Spiritual security comes from revelation that relieves the anxiety of death. “But there is a resurrection, therefore the grave hath no victory, and the sting of death is swallowed up in Christ”  How reassuring it is to know the reality not only of the Resurrection, but also of eternal life.“And what is it that ye shall hope for? Behold I say unto you that ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection, to be raised unto life eternal” Spiritual security is enhanced as a result of revelation that promises an unchanging, everlasting, eternal way of life.“For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of changing?”  There is no need for daily heartrending revisions or reconsideration of our values.Spiritual security increases because revelation teaches us about our true identity and our relationship with God. From the beginning this was revealed to Adam: “Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God”  Then it was revealed to others, such as Moses: “Thou art my son”  “Thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior”  In our day it has also been revealed to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and to many others: “Behold, I say unto you, my son” Knowing who we really are prepares us to use that knowledge to face temptations, to resist them, and then to act righteously. Moses, knowing he was a son of God, as revealed to him, told Satan, “Get thee hence, Satan; deceive me not; for God said unto me: Thou art after the similitude of mine Only Begotten”  The result did not wait, as the Lord called him, saying, “Blessed art thou, Moses, for I, the Almighty, have chosen thee, and thou shalt be made stronger than many waters; for they shall obey thy command as if thou wert God”  The spiritual security becomes evident as the Lord added, “I am with thee, even unto the end of thy days” Spiritual security is edified by revelation that describes the roles of men and women. After the Fall, Heavenly Father addressed Adam and Eve personally and directly and instructed them about their roles. Relationships, gender, behavior, marriage—all matters related to males and females were and still are clearly defined to strengthen us in our divine roles.Spiritual security is strengthened by revelation that explains the results of observing the commandments. “And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness” Finally, spiritual security is reinforced step-by-step by revelation, and this security becomes power as we receive, one by one, the ordinances of salvation. The ordinances of salvation represent covenants with the Lord. John A. Widtsoe said, “When ordinances are performed, blessings are received which give power to man, power that belongs to the everyday affairs of this life as to a future life. It is not merely knowledge; not merely consecration; not merely a labeling, so to speak; but the actual conferring of power that may be used every day” ( ed. G. Homer Durham, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969, p. 161).Yesterday’s revelations gave security to the people about the coming of Jesus Christ and the assurance that the words of the Lord spoken by holy prophets are always fulfilled. Today’s revelations in the Book of Mormon, to which I have purposely referred, carry the same promise. President Ezra Taft Benson has declared: “God expects us to use the Book of Mormon in several ways. We are to read it ourselves. …“We are to use the Book of Mormon as the basis for our teaching. …“We are to liken the Book of Mormon scriptures unto us ‘that it might be for our profit and learning’ “We are to use the Book of Mormon in handling objections to the Church. …“We … have to be … the tellers and testifiers, of the Book of Mormon unto the ends of the earth” (May 1975, pp. 64–65).Because of its message for our day, the Book of Mormon helps us to respond to the call of God and of a living prophet to become partners in the plan of salvation and to build spiritual security by helping us to resist and combat the false concepts and evil influences of our time that bring insecurity, unhappiness, and destruction of our ethics and moral values.To turn to the Lord and to trust him through revelation will help any individual, at any time, in any part of the world, understand and interpret correctly and righteously life’s experiences from the only true perspective, which is the Lord’s perspective revealed to man. To turn to the Lord and to trust his revelations is to live in such a way as to resist the floods and the winds of doubt and uncertainty.It is truly the foundation of our commitment to serve and to make the right choices. It also brings true security and sets forth the promises given by Jesus Christ when we come unto him. His yoke indeed becomes easy and his burden light.I testify of the power of personal revelation and of the scriptures in my life. I know that God lives and that President Ezra Taft Benson is a living prophet. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I hope it is not presumptuous of me to place into the record of this conference, and therefore into the history of the Church, a note to complete the record of the last one.In the last session of October conference, Elder A. Theodore Tuttle gave a touching and inspiring sermon on faith. He spoke from his heart, with scriptures in hand, without a prepared text. When he had concluded, President Hinckley, who conducted that session, said:“I should perhaps be guilty of an indiscretion, but I think I will risk it and say that Brother Tuttle has been seriously ill and he needs our faith, the faith of which he has spoken. It will be appreciated if those who have listened to him across the Church would plead with our Father in Heaven, in the kind of faith which he has described, in his behalf” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1986, p. 93).President Ezra Taft Benson, who was the concluding speaker, endorsed what President Hinckley had said and appealed himself for fasting and prayers of faith for the recovery of Brother Tuttle.But Brother Tuttle did not recover. He died seven weeks later.Now, lest there be one whose faith was shaken, believing prayers were not answered, or lest there be one who is puzzled that the prophet himself could plead for the entire Church to fast and pray for Brother Tuttle to live and yet he died, I will tell you of an experience.I had intended to tell this at his funeral, but my feelings were too tender that day to speak of it.One Sunday when Brother Tuttle was at home, confined mostly to his bed, I spent a few hours with him while Marné and the family went to church.He was deeply moved by the outpouring of love from across the world. Each letter extended prayers of faith for his recovery. Many of the messages came from South America, where the Tuttle family had labored for so many years.That day we reviewed his life, beginning with his birth in Manti, Utah, to an ordinary Latter-day Saint couple. We talked of his father, whom I knew, and of his mother, a faithful temple worker.He talked of his mission, his college days, his marriage to Marné Whitaker, and his heroic service in the Marines.Then we relived our days teaching seminary in Brigham City and supervising the seminaries and institutes of religion.He talked of his seven faithful children and the flock of grandchildren whom he always described as “the best kids in the world.”He spoke of his call to the First Quorum of the Seventy and the assignments that followed. Soon the Tuttle family was called to South America. They were hardly settled back home when the Brethren interviewed him about returning.Others could say, “Of course, if you should  us, we would go.” But not him, nor Marné, for they had made covenants. Without complaint, his wife and family followed him back time after time for a total of seven years.No matter that he had never recovered from serious physical troubles which began on his first assignment there. That day Brother Tuttle spoke tenderly of the humble people of Latin America. They who have so little had greatly blessed his life.He insisted that he did not deserve more blessings, nor did he need them. Others needed them more. And then he told me this: “I talked to the Lord about those prayers for my recovery. I asked if the blessings were mine to do with as I pleased. If that could be so, I told the Lord that I wanted him to take them back from me and give them to those who needed them more.”He said, “I begged the Lord to take back those blessings and give them to others.”Brother Tuttle wanted those blessings from our prayers for those struggling souls whom most of us hardly remember, but whom he could not forget.The scriptures teach that “the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much” Can you not believe that the Lord may have favored the pleadings of this saintly man above our own appeal for his recovery?We do not know all things, but is it wrong to suppose that our prayers were not in vain at all? Who among us would dare to say that humble folk here and there across the continent of South America will not receive unexpected blessings passed on to them from this man who was without guile?May not lofty purposes such as this be worked out in our lives if we are submissive?Now, I know that skeptics may ridicule such things. But I, for one, am content to believe that our prayers were accepted and recorded and redirected to those whose hands hang down in despair, just as Brother Tuttle had requested.In any case, ought we not to conclude all our prayers with “Let thy will, O Lord, be done”?During his last weeks he was always pleasant, invariably comforting those who came to comfort him. I was present when he called his doctors to his bedside and thanked each one for the care he had received.He was determined to live through Thanksgiving Day lest his passing cast a shadow of sorrow upon his family on that holiday in future years. That evening he saw each of his children, called those who were away, expressed his love and blessings, and bade them farewell. It was very late when they reached Clarie, who lives in Alaska, but his parting must be delayed until that was done.Early the next morning, without resistance, with a spirit of quiet anticipation, he slipped away. At that moment, there came into that room a spirit of peace which surpasseth understanding.Marné had been before, was then, and has been since, a perfect example of serenity and acceptance.Now, to draw a lesson from this experience.Brother Tuttle served twenty-eight years as a General Authority. He traveled the world. He supervised the work in Europe for a time. But with all the places he would go and all of the things he was to do, he repeatedly said that the crowning experience of his ministry was his service as president of the Provo Temple with his beloved Marné at his side.Few know the demanding schedule of a temple president. The day may begin at three in the morning and end only too close to that same hour.It was not that he was presiding  the temple but that the calling allowed him to be  the temple. He would have been quite content to serve under another. His feelings about that assignment were not due so much to his understanding of what a  is, as it was his understanding of what a  is.A covenant is a sacred promise, as used in the scriptures, a solemn, enduring promise between God and man. The fulness of the gospel itself is defined as the new and everlasting covenant (see  Several years ago I installed a stake president in England. In another calling, he is here in the audience today. He had an unusual sense of direction. He was like a mariner with a sextant who took his bearings from the stars. I met with him each time he came to conference and was impressed that he kept himself and his stake on course.Fortunately for me, when it was time for his release, I was assigned to reorganize the stake. It was then that I discovered what that sextant was and how he adjusted it to check his position and get a bearing for himself and for his members.He accepted his release, and said, “I was happy to accept the call to serve as stake president, and I am equally happy to accept my release. I did not serve just because I was under  I served because I am under  And I can keep my covenants quite as well as a home teacher as I can serving as stake president.”This president understood the word While he was neither a scriptorian nor a gospel scholar, he somehow had learned that exaltation is achieved by keeping covenants, not by holding high position.The mariner gets his bearing from light coming from celestial bodies—the sun by day, the stars by night. That stake president did not need a mariner’s sextant to set his course. In his mind there was a sextant infinitely more refined and precise than any mariner’s instrument.The spiritual sextant, which each of us has, also functions on the principle of light from celestial sources. Set that sextant in your mind to the word  or the word  The light will come through. Then you can fix your position and set a true course in life.No matter what citizenship or race, whether male or female, no matter what occupation, no matter your education, regardless of the generation in which one lives, life is a homeward journey for all of us, back to the presence of God in his celestial kingdom.Ordinances and covenants become our credentials for admission into His presence. To worthily receive them is the quest of a lifetime; to keep them thereafter is the challenge of mortality.Once we have received them for ourselves and for our families, we are obligated to provide these ordinances vicariously for our kindred dead, indeed for the whole human family.Now, there are those who scoff at the idea of vicarious ordinances performed for the salvation of souls. They think it all to be very strange.No thinking Christian should be surprised at such a doctrine. Was not the sacrifice of Christ a vicarious offering for and in behalf of all mankind? The very Atonement was wrought vicariously.The Lord did for us what we could not do for ourselves. Is it not Christlike for us to perform in the temples ordinances for and in behalf of those who cannot do them for themselves?Genealogies, or family histories, as I prefer to call them, are an indispensable part of temple work. Temples are nourished with names. Without genealogies, ordinances could be performed only for the living. Searching out the names of our kindred dead is a duty of consummate importance. There is a spirit which accompanies this work very similar to that which attends us in the temple itself.Missionaries and those with small children may not be able to devote much time to this work at present, but you can keep the spirit of it. You can talk to the old folks and record what they say, keep family records, attend the temple.There is the tendency on the part of some to regard genealogy work as a tedious, onerous burden. And they are quite content to leave it to the aged or to others “who have an interest in such things.”Be careful! It may well be that those who have that interest in such things have chosen the better part. And I would say to you, if you are called to other service, or do not have an interest in genealogy, do not belittle or stand in the way of those who do. Give them every encouragement; contribute what you can.The Prophet Joseph Smith said: “The doctrine or sealing power of Elijah is as follows:—If you have power to seal on earth and in heaven, then we should be wise. The first thing you do, go and seal on earth your sons and daughters unto yourself, and yourself unto your fathers in eternal glory” ( sel. Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938, p. 340).The Spirit of Elijah of which the prophets have spoken is very real and accompanies those who seek for the records of their kindred dead.The more I have to do with genealogical work, the more difficulty I have with that word  I know of no adequate substitute. I suppose  would suit me as well as any. I have had too many sacred experiences, of the kind of which we never speak lightly, to feel that the word  describes those who have gone beyond the veil.Temple and genealogy work are visible testimonies of our belief in the resurrection and atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ. Should we doubt that we live again beyond the veil, what reason would we have to do the things we are doing?This work is our witness of the redemptive power of the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ.Now what of Brother Tuttle or of his family? I remind you that it is a veil, not a wall, that separates us from the spirit world. He kept his covenants. Veils can become thin, even parted. We are not left to do this work alone.They who have preceded us in this work and our forebears there, on occasion, are very close to us. I have a testimony of this work; it is a supernal work in the Church. I am a witness that those who go beyond the veil yet live and minister here, to the end that this work might be completed.God grant that we who have an opportunity to have part in it might seek that opportunity and labor with all our might, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.