Near here stands a tall building twenty-six stories high. In it are two banks of elevators, one an express, one that moves a little more normally.Not long ago I got on the express elevator. Some of the workers there say it could qualify as a ride at Disneyland. A little boy and his father got on with me. Suddenly the elevator took off, and the little boy, not expecting the thrill, lost his breath and looked up at his dad with great faith and trust and said, “Daddy, does Heavenly Father know we’re coming?”There is a great lesson in that experience.Dr. JoAnn Larsen, a Salt Lake City family therapist, recently gave some wise and practical counsel on teaching children and building their self-esteem. She reminded us of the tendency most parents have, in their efforts to teach their children responsibility, of so often stressing the negative things the children do—the mistakes and misjudgments they make and the inconveniences and trouble they cause. She made the statement that between birth and twenty years of age the average child hears from parents, teachers, siblings, and peers probably one hundred thousand negative messages, which are rarely balanced with positive messages. With an extremely lucky child, the ratio would probably be ten negatives to one positive, which she claims can be highly damaging, often for life, to a child’s feelings of self-worth.She encourages us all to develop lenses—vision that sees positives instead of negatives, thus making it possible to perform miracles sometimes and certainly to greatly improve the results of our teaching efforts and our parent-child relationships. The good accomplished toward the making of a better world through upbuilding, trusting approaches to life situations, in contrast to those that tear down, could very possibly never be accurately assessed.Why is it that as humans we tend to emphasize the negative when there is so much to be positive about? We not only constantly criticize our children and each other, find fault, are very judgmental, and often seek out and build up people’s weaknesses and failings rather than their strengths and successes, but in our own personal life-styles there are those of us who are incessant, chronic worriers. We worry about all the negative things that could happen, but usually don’t, rather than positively trying to face problems with some amount of faith and hope of success.In our society, for some reason, we seem to dwell on the bizarre, the tragic, the profane, and the evils of our day. So often the newspapers and television reports center attention around the negative aspects of life: teenage suicides, drugs, AIDS, murders, infidelities, dishonesty, and a host of other social ills.As I travel throughout the Church, I occasionally see another form of thinking that can become quite negative—members weighted down, sometimes grimly, with the serious tasks that they must perform to earn livings, pay mortgages, rear children, faithfully fulfill Church callings, attend to school and community responsibilities, live righteously and worthily—the list could go on and on.I often think that for some of these people the joy and excitement have gone out of their lives and that all they look back on are crowded, grim days, often filled with great guilt because of the pressure of trying to accomplish everything they think is necessary and to be perfect right now. Interestingly, negative attitudes seem to affect us in that way.Now, of course, life is serious. Children must be taught, bills must be paid, we must live righteously—it is the Lord’s counsel to us. We can’t help but worry sometimes; there are and always will be never-ending negatives existing all around us which must be faced, dealt with, and solved. But I wonder if the constant bombardment of dilemmas and challenges and the often seemingly hopeless situations, both personal and nationwide, don’t frustrate, discourage, and depress us sometimes to the point where our minds and attitudes are distracted from the very principles that would allow us to rise above the negative and find the positive answers we need.In spite of the many negative occurrences in life, there are those who seem to have the knack of seeing the positive side. A young businessman was opening a new branch office, and a friend sent a floral arrangement to help celebrate the occasion. When the friend arrived at the opening, he was appalled to find the wreath bore the inscription “Rest in Peace.” Angry, he later complained to the florist. After apologizing, the florist said, “Look at it this way. Somewhere today a man was buried under a wreath that said, ‘Good luck in your new location.’”In the Book of Mormon, in which we find many answers and so much direction in solving problems, there is a scripture that, to me, sheds great light on the matter of a positive, trusting, hopeful attitude of faith as a substitute for facing life’s problems with discouragement and despair. Listen to the words of the prophet Ether as he exhorts us to know and believe in God as a foundation of hope and faith:“By faith all things are fulfilled—“Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, which would make them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God” Throughout the whole of this marvelous chapter we are taught the wonders accomplished by faith, love, and hope. It seems to me that dwelling on negative thoughts and approaches is, in fact, working directly opposite of hope, faith, and trust—in the Lord, ourselves, and others—and causes continual feelings of gloom, while the positive lifts and buoys us up, encourages us to forge ahead, and is an attitude that can be developed, a habit that we can cultivate.The epitome of celebrating the beautiful and overlooking the misfortune is the story of Thomas Moore.Soon after he was married, Thomas Moore, the famous nineteenth-century Irish poet, was called away on a business trip. Upon his return he was met at the door, not by his beautiful bride, but by the family doctor.“Your wife is upstairs,” said the doctor. “But she asked that you not come up.” Then Moore learned the terrible truth: his wife had contracted smallpox. The disease had left her once flawless skin pocked and scarred. She had taken one look at her reflection in the mirror and commanded that the shutters be drawn and that her husband never see her again. Moore would not listen. He ran upstairs and threw open the door of his wife’s room. It was black as night inside. Not a sound came from the darkness. Groping along the wall, Moore felt for the gas jets.A startled cry came from a black corner of the room. “No!” she said. “Don’t light the lamps!”Moore hesitated, swayed by the pleading in the voice.“Go!” she begged. “Please go! This is the greatest gift I can give you now.”Moore did go. He went down to his study, where he sat up most of the night, prayerfully writing. Not a poem this time, but a song. He had never written a song before, but now he found it more natural to his mood than simple poetry. He not only wrote the words, but he wrote the music, too. The next morning, as soon as the sun was up he returned to his wife’s room.He felt his way to a chair and sat down. “Are you awake?” he asked.“I am,” came a voice from the far side of the room. “But you must not ask to see me. You must not press me, Thomas.”“I will sing to you, then,” he answered. And so for the first time, Thomas Moore sang to his wife the song that still lives today:“Believe me, if all those endearing young charms which I gaze on so fondly today, were to change by tomorrow and flee in my arms like fairy gifts fading away, thou would’st still be adored, as this moment thou art—let thy loveliness fade as it will.”Moore heard a movement from the dark corner where his wife lay in her loneliness. He continued:“Let thy loveliness fade as it will, and around the dear ruin each wish of my heart would entwine itself verdantly still—”The song ended. As his voice trailed off on the last note, Moore heard his bride rise. She crossed the room to the window, reached up, and drew open the shutters.We need more such attitudes in the world. There is the story of the husband and wife who had saved and saved for a new car. After taking delivery, the husband told his wife that all the necessary legal documents and insurance information were in a packet in the glove compartment. On her first day out in the new car, she was involved in an accident, which demolished the front end of the car. Unhurt, in tears, and near panic, she opened the packet to show the police officer her papers. There she found a handwritten note from her husband which read: “Now that you have had an accident, remember I can always replace the car, but not you. Please know how much I love you!”As stated in the beginning that with children we so often see the negative before the positive, a little boy was almost squelched in his attempt to express his feelings because an adult didn’t understand. A special friend of mine, Dr. Thomas Myers, shared this tender experience:A small boy accompanied his father and grandparents into his medical office. The old man was leaning on the boy’s two upstretched hands as he moved. The child encouraged him with, “Come on, Grandpa, you can make it! … Only a little farther, Grandpa. … The doctor will make your leg better.” A sweet grandmother walked behind.After the visit, the three exited the same way. The little boy was given a helium balloon on his way out. He helped his grandfather to the car, then ran back in and, pulling himself up to the counter, asked the receptionist, “Please, may I have another balloon?”His grandmother, still standing there, scolded him, “Of course you can’t. I warned you not to let that balloon go!” She apologized to the receptionist. “He did this last week—went right outside and let his balloon go. I really did warn him this time.”The little boy was trying to tell her something. She bent down to listen. Then, with tears showing on her thin, wrinkled face, the grandmother asked, “Could he please have another balloon? You see, his little sister died a few months ago, and he wanted her to have a balloon to play with, too!”As critical and judgmental as we often must be, as much as we will have to correct, as truly as we must face unpleasant realities all of our days, let us recognize and praise the thousands of beauties of life around us; the many wonderful examples of virtuous living; the strengths and the courage of so many souls; the exceptional talents and achievements of our family members, neighbors, and associates; the countless blessings that we have been given. As has been quoted by so many, but seems to fit well here, “Two men look out through the same bars: One sees the mud, and one the stars” (Frederick Langbridge,  cited in  2d ed., London: Oxford Univ. Press, 1966, p. 310).And as the prophet Mormon taught us:“But charity [in this case, the charity in our thinking of and appreciation of others] is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him” Remember, my brothers and sisters, particularly you young people, Christ came to lift us up, not put us down. I, with these great brethren on this stand, as a witness, invite you to come unto him.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Events and circumstances in the last days make it imperative for us as members of the Church to become more grounded, rooted, established, and settled (see    Jesus said to His disciples, “settle this in your hearts, that ye will do the things which I shall teach, and command you”  If not so settled, the turbulence will be severe. If settled, we will not be “tossed to and fro,”  whether by rumors, false doctrines, or by the behavioral and intellectual fashions of the world. Nor will we get caught up in the “talk show” mentality, spending our time like ancient Athenians “in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new thing”  Why be concerned with the passing preferences of the world anyway? “For the fashion of this world passeth away” However, we cannot be thus settled in doing what Jesus has commanded  we are first settled about Him. If Jesus were only a man, albeit a very good man, His counsel is merely that of a meridian moralist. It is quite another thing, however, for the Creator of multiple worlds, whose central concern is our individual happiness, to command, “Thou shalt not commit adultery.”  Our task, therefore, is to “reconcile [ourselves] to the will of God, and not to the will of … the flesh” The poet-prophet Jacob witnessed among Church members how covenant-breaking wounded “delicate minds” and how hearts were “pierced with deep wounds”  He was “weighed down” and so heavy with sorrow because some members esteemed their covenants so lightly  As I witness some of today’s walking wounded, I understand Jacob’s feelings as never before!Some Church members, alas, are neither reconciled to the will of God nor are they sufficiently settled as to their covenants.Some unworthily covenant afresh, partaking of the broken bread while having broken their covenants of marriage.Some give of their time yet withhold themselves, being present without giving of their presence and going through the superficial motions of membership instead of the deep emotions of consecrated discipleship.Some try to get by with knowing only the headlines of the gospel, not really talking much of Christ or rejoicing in Christ and esteeming lightly His books of scripture which contain and explain His covenants (see Some are so proud they never learn of obedience and spiritual submissiveness. They will have very arthritic knees on the day when every knee shall bend. There will be no gallery then to play to; all will be participants!Maintaining Church membership on our own terms, therefore, is not true discipleship.Real disciples absorb the fiery darts of the adversary by holding aloft the quenching shield of faith with one hand, while holding to the iron rod with the other (see    There should be no mistaking; it will take both hands!Real disciples are also, precept by precept and experience by experience, becoming ever more like the Master they serve. We can neither be the woman nor the “man of Christ”  unless we are coming to have the “mind of Christ”  This process can happily include, wrote Paul, those once “alienated and enemies in [their] mind”  see  We can be so clever, like the adversary, and still not know the mind of God! (see We can be “ever learning”  and yet allow the everlasting truths to get lost in life’s shuffle as in this lamentation:To help us become true disciples, the Lord has given us prophets and scriptures to strengthen us, “to prepare the weak for those things which are coming on the earth, and for the Lord’s errand in the day when … by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his Spirit” Feasting upon the fulness of the gospel will help us to overcome. Additionally, if we will keep our covenants, the covenants will keep us spiritually safe.One day, and why not soon, the people of the Church will fulfill this prophecy: “The power of the Lamb of God … descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, … the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory” However, our collective light does not yet shine brightly enough to be “a standard for the nations” The Church would grow much faster now, numerically and spiritually, if it were not for the wickedness of the world (see  It would also grow much faster if you and I were better by taking up the Christian cross daily (see  Part of taking up the cross is denying ourselves the lusts and appetites of the flesh. “For it is better,” the resurrected Jesus said, “that ye should deny yourselves of these things, wherein ye will take up your cross” Thus, the  taking up of the cross means  denying ourselves the appetites of the flesh.By emulating the Master, who endured temptations but “gave no heed unto them,”  we, too, can live in a world filled with temptations “such as [are] common to man”  Of course Jesus noticed the tremendous temptations that came to him, but He did not process and reprocess them. Instead, He rejected them promptly. If we entertain temptations, soon they begin entertaining us! Turning these unwanted lodgers away at the doorstep of the mind is one way of giving “no heed.” Besides, these would-be lodgers are actually barbarians who, if admitted, can be evicted only with great trauma.In a decaying environment, the mind is the last redoubt of righteousness, and it must be preserved even amid bombardment by evil stimuli. Christ is competent to see us through, “for in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted” As promised, He will make either “a way to escape” or a way “to bear it” We surely have been warned and forewarned about our time, a period in which the compression of challenges may make a year seem like a decade. Members will be cleverly mocked and scorned by those in the “great and spacious building,” representing the pride of the world   No matter, for ere long, He who was raised on the third day will raze that spacious but third-class hotel!Ours will be a time of great inversion as well as perversion, as some will call good evil and evil good (see     Others, in their ignorance of spiritual truths, will “speak evil of those things which they know not”  see Peace has already been taken from the earth (see  Nation will rise against nation (see  It will also be a time of hardening as the love of many waxes cold and iniquity abounds (see  Secular bewilderment will be epidemic amid the “distress of nations, with perplexity”  as various vexations will mock man’s cosmetic remedies:We cannot expect to live in such a world without experiencing certain consequences of these conditions. Yet we can always keep our covenants, even if we cannot keep such conditions from coming.The Lord, who knows all that through which we will pass, will help us to overcome in our “small moment” of time  If we are settled, we will “endure it well”  and “hold fast”  Endured righteously, “all these things shall give [us] experience, and shall be for [our] good”  “Think it not strange” when disciples are called upon to pass through “the fiery trial,” said Peter Even so, the Saints of God, as prophesied, will eventually “cry unto the Lord day and night until deliverance comes” ( n.p., n.d., p. 6).The spiritually settled will finally overcome, and the glorious promise is, “To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne” Meanwhile, let us remember “what manner of persons [we] ought … to be”   Attributively, we are to become even as Jesus, with His virtues being increasingly replicated in our lives. Even in the midst of our obvious imperfections, a sacred process is to be underway—if slowly, nevertheless resolutely. Whatever one’s unfolding agendum, he can be  if he is  more like Christ!Even though scarred by the past, if contrite, Jesus’ promise is: “I shall heal them”  Such shall become “alive again”  “in Christ because of [their] faith”  As part of His infinite atonement, Jesus knows “according to the flesh” all that through which we pass  He has borne the sins, griefs, sorrows, and, declared Jacob, the pains of every man, woman, and child (see  Having been perfected in His empathy, Jesus thus knows how to succor us.We can, therefore, actually do as Peter urged and cast our cares upon the Lord (see  He is familiar with them, including even the feeling of being forsaken (see   Nothing is beyond His redeeming reach or His encircling empathy. Therefore, we should not complain about our own life’s not being a rose garden when we remember who wore the crown of thorns!I turn now to the conclusion of Jesus’ mortal Messiahship. Luke reported Jesus’ sweating in Gethsemane “as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground”  This fact is fully validated in the “other books” of restoration scripture  “Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, … to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink” The necessary but awesome shedding of Jesus’ blood thus occurred not only in the severe scourging, but earlier in Gethsemane. A recent and thoughtful article by several physicians on the physical death of Jesus Christ indicates that “the severe scourging, with its intense pain and appreciable blood loss, most probably left Jesus in a preshock state.” (We all recall, of course, that a dramatically weakened Jesus needed help to carry the cross.) “Therefore, even before the actual crucifixion, Jesus’ physical condition was at least serious and possibly critical. … Although scourging may have resulted in considerable blood loss, crucifixion per se was a relatively bloodless procedure” ( 21 Mar. 1986, pp. 1458, 1461).In addition to the consequences of scourging, how Christ’s lifeblood had already flowed in Gethsemane! Remember, he suffered “both body and spirit”  Declared King Benjamin, Christ would suffer “even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish” Having bled at every pore, how red His raiment must have been in Gethsemane, how crimson that cloak!No wonder, when Christ comes in power and glory, that He will come in reminding red attire (see  signifying not only the winepress of wrath, but also to bring to our remembrance how He suffered for each of us in Gethsemane and on Calvary!In recent years, as I have sung the hymns of the Atonement, it has been with an especially full heart—and also with full voice, when I can continue to sing—lines such as “How great thou art,” “I scarce can take it in,” “To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine,” “I stand all amazed,” and “Oh, it is wonderful!” ( 1985, nos. 86, 193).Now, my brothers and sisters, let not Jesus’ redemption for us stop at the immortalizing dimension of the Atonement, “the loosing of the bands of death”  Let us grasp the proffered gift of eternal life! We will end up either choosing Christ’s manner of living or His manner of suffering! It is either “suffer even as I”  or overcome “even as [He] … overcame”  His beckoning command is to become “even as I am”  The spiritually settled accept that invitation, and “through the atonement of Christ,” they  and  (see In this unsettled world, may we settle in our hearts on this determination, I pray in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.