“What think ye of Christ?”  That question is as penetrating today as when Jesus used it to confound the Pharisees almost two thousand years ago. Like a sword, sharp and powerful, it uncovers what is hidden, divides truth from error, and goes to the heart of religious belief.Here are some answers being given today.Some praise Jesus Christ as the greatest teacher who ever lived, but deny that he is Messiah, Savior, or Redeemer. Some prominent theologians teach that our secularized world needs “a new concept of God,” stripped of the supernatural. They believe that not even a suffering God can help to solve the pain and tragedy of modern man. (See John A. Hardon,  Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday and Co., 1971, pp. 356, 359.)A bishop in one Christian denomination has declared that “Jesus was in every sense a human being, just as we are.” (“One Clergyman’s Views on the ‘Death of God,’”  18 Apr. 1966, p. 57).Under the influence of such teachings, the religion of many is like the creed of the humanists, who declare that “no deity will save us; we must save ourselves.” ( 1st ed., ed. J. Gordon Melton, Detroit: Gale Research Co., 1973, p. 641).Another church that claims roots in “Christianity” maintains that Jesus’ crucifixion was not the fulfillment of his mission, but evidence of its failure. They teach that he did not cleanse men of original sin, but that another messiah must come to complete our salvation and establish the kingdom of heaven on earth. (Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity,  1980, pp. 79–83, 238–39, 247–48, 252, 298–99.)Many years ago a young Latter-day Saint enrolled in a midwestern university and applied for a scholarship only available to Christians. Both the applicant and the university officials were unsure whether a Mormon was eligible. After consulting a panel of theologians, they concluded that this Mormon was a Christian.When I first heard of that event over thirty years ago, I was shocked that anyone, especially a member of our church, would entertain any doubt that we are Christians. I have come to a better understanding of that confusion. I think we sometimes thoughtlessly give others cause to wonder. How does this happen?For many years I was a teacher of law. A frequent teaching method in that discipline is to concentrate classroom instruction on the difficult questions—the obscure and debatable matters that lie at the fringes of learning. Some law teachers believe that the simple general rules that answer most legal questions are so obvious that students can learn them by independent study. As a result, these teachers devote little time to teaching the basics.I believe some of us sometimes do the same thing in gospel teaching. We neglect to teach and testify to some simple, basic truths of paramount importance. This omission permits some members and nonmembers to get wrong ideas about our faith and belief.What do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints think of Christ?Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of God the Eternal Father. He is our Creator. He is our Teacher. He is our Savior. His atonement paid for the sin of Adam and won victory over death, assuring resurrection and immortality for all men.He is all of these, but he is more. Jesus Christ is the Savior, whose atoning sacrifice opens the door for us to be cleansed of our personal sins so that we can be readmitted to the presence of God. He is our Redeemer.The Messiah’s atoning sacrifice is the central message of the prophets of all ages. It was prefigured by the animal sacrifices prescribed by the law of Moses, whose whole meaning, one prophet explained, “point[ed] to that great and last sacrifice [of] … the Son of God, yea, infinite and eternal.”  The Atonement was promised and predicted by the Old Testament prophets. Isaiah declared:“He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: … and with his stripes we are healed.“All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.“He was … brought as a lamb to the slaughter. …“He was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken. …“He bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.” At the beginning of the Savior’s ministry, John the Baptist exclaimed, “Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.” At the end of his ministry, as Jesus blessed the cup and gave it to his disciples, he said, “For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.”  As Latter-day Saints partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, we drink water in remembrance of his blood, which was shed for us. (See The writers of the New Testament teach that our Savior’s suffering and his blood atoned for our sins.The Apostle Paul told the Corinthians that the first principle of the gospel he preached to them was “how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures.”  And to the Colossians he wrote, “We have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins.”  see also  Peter described how Christ “bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed.” John wrote that “the blood of Jesus Christ … cleanseth us from all sin.”  see also   We revere the Bible. And so we and our fellow believers in Christ sing these words from that inspiring hymn “How Great Thou Art”:Although the Bible’s explanation of atonement for individual sins should be unmistakable, that doctrine has been misunderstood by many who have only the Bible to explain it.Modern prophets declare that the Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the everlasting gospel in greater clarity than any other scripture. (See   In a day when many are challenging the divinity of Jesus Christ or doubting the reality of his atonement and resurrection, the message of that second witness, the Book of Mormon, is needed more urgently than ever.President Ezra Taft Benson has reminded us again and again that the Book of Mormon “was written for our day” and that it “is the keystone in our witness of Jesus Christ.” ( Nov. 1986, pp. 5–6.) I believe that the reason our Heavenly Father has had his prophet direct us into a more intensive study of the Book of Mormon is that this generation needs its message more than any of its forebears. As President Benson has said, the Book of Mormon “provides the most complete explanation of the doctrine of the Atonement,” and “its testimony of the Master is clear, undiluted, and full of power.” ( Nov. 1986, p. 5.)In contrast, what is called “liberal theology” teaches that Jesus Christ is important not because he atoned for our sins, but only because he taught us the way to come to God by perfecting ourselves. In this theology, human beings can be reconciled to God entirely through their own righteousness. (See O. Kendall White, Jr.,  Salt Lake City: Signature Books, 1987, pp. 43–44.)Another group—secular rather than religious—believes that Jesus was not God, that man is God, and that you can create your own destiny through the powers of your own mind. (See “Age-old Fear of New Age Concerns,”  11 July 1988, p. 55.)Are Latter-day Saints susceptible to such heresies? The Apostle Paul wrote that we should “work out [our] own salvation with fear and trembling.”  Could that familiar expression mean that the sum total of our own righteousness will win us salvation and exaltation? Could some of us believe that our heavenly parentage and our divine destiny allow us to pass through mortality and attain eternal life solely on our own merits?On the basis of what I have heard, I believe that some of us, some of the time, say things that can create that impression. We can forget that keeping the commandments, which is necessary, is not sufficient. As Nephi said, we must labor diligently to persuade everyone “to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.” In his famous poem “Invictus,” William Ernest Henley hurled man’s challenge against Fate. With head “bloody, but unbowed,” determined man is unconquerable. The last verse reads:Writing a half-century later, Elder Orson F. Whitney replied with these lines:Man unquestionably has impressive powers and can bring to pass great things by tireless efforts and indomitable will. But after all our obedience and good works, we cannot be saved from the effect of our sins without the grace extended by the atonement of Jesus Christ.The Book of Mormon puts us right. It teaches that “salvation doth not come by the law alone”  that is, salvation does not come by keeping the commandments alone. “By the law no flesh is justified.”  Even those who serve God with their whole souls are unprofitable servants. (See  Man cannot earn his own salvation.The Book of Mormon teaches, “Since man had fallen he could not merit anything of himself.”  “There can be nothing which is short of an infinite atonement which will suffice for the sins of the world.”  see also   “Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; … he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law.”  And so we “preach of Christ … that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.” In the Book of Mormon the Savior explains the gospel, including the Atonement and its relationship to repentance, baptism, works of righteousness, and the ultimate judgment:“My Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the cross, … that I might draw all men unto me, … that they may be judged according to their works. And … whoso repenteth and is baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he endureth to the end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at that day when I shall stand to judge the world.” In that same teaching the Savior restates these principles in a way that emphasizes our everlasting reliance on the Atonement worked out by the shedding of his blood:“And no unclean thing can enter into [the Father’s] kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end.” Joseph Smith stated this same relationship in our third article of faith: “We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel.” Why is Christ the only way? How was it possible for him to take upon himself the sins of all mankind? Why was it necessary for his blood to be shed? And how can our soiled and sinful selves be cleansed by his blood?These are mysteries I do not understand. To me, as to President John Taylor, the miracle of the atonement of Jesus Christ is “incomprehensible and inexplicable.” (See  Salt Lake City: Deseret News Co., 1882, pp. 148–49.) But the Holy Ghost has given me a witness of its truthfulness, and I rejoice that I can spend my life in proclaiming it.I testify with the ancient and modern prophets that there is no other name and no other way under heaven by which man can be saved except by Jesus Christ. (See    I witness with the prophet Lehi that “there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah.” I testify with the prophet Alma that no man can be saved except he is cleansed from all stain, through the blood of Jesus Christ. (See  As he explains, “repentance could not come unto men except there were a punishment”  and “therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice” I witness with the prophets of the Book of Mormon that the Messiah, the Holy One of Israel, suffered “according to the flesh”  the pains, the infirmities, and the griefs and sorrows of every living creature in the family of Adam. (See    I testify that when the Savior suffered and died for all men, all men became subject unto him (see  and to his commandment that all must repent and be baptized in his name, having faith in him, “or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.”  see also   Speaking through the Prophet Joseph Smith in our dispensation, the Savior said:“I am … Christ the Lord, … the Redeemer of the world.“I [have] accomplished and finished the will of him whose I am, even the Father, concerning me—having done this that I might subdue all things unto myself—“Retaining all power, even to … judging every man according to his works and the deeds which he hath done.“And surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless. …“Wherefore, I command you to repent. …“For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent;“But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I.” What think we of Christ? As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we testify with the Book of Mormon prophet-king Benjamin that “there shall be no other name given nor any other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent,“For behold, … salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ.” And as we repent of our sins and seek to keep his commandments and our covenants, we cry out, as Benjamin’s people cried out, “O have mercy, and apply the atoning blood of Christ that we may receive forgiveness of our sins” In all of this, we remember and rely on the Lord’s sure word: “Keep my commandments in all things. And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.In a stake conference only a few days ago, I heard the tender story of an older man who had taken his 1974-model automobile to a garage for repairs. The projected work was more costly than he or the conscientious mechanic had contemplated, and the garage owner wondered if the elderly man really wanted to spend that much on such an old car.Said the car owner, “Could you take a credit card that isn’t mine?”“Whose is it?” asked the garage man.“It is my daughter’s,” the man said. “She wants me to have my automobile in good, safe condition. It is the only thing I have.”As the son of a father of whom I have no conscious memory, and as a father of loving children, I weep over that. There is no neighbor, after all, closer than the ones in our own families. And in this incident, knowing no more details, one does not get the impression of a casual check written on ample funds, but of a loving daughter very likely sacrificing to preserve the self-esteem and precarious independence of a cherished father.In the same weekend, I listened to the account of a stake president who accompanied his bishop to a hospital to visit a man who was very ill. As they held his hand, the patient sorted through the cobwebs of pain and confusion and discerned the presence of his friends, his busy leaders. He spoke: “You came,” he said. “You came.”This morning I would like to speak of my deep conviction concerning one of the most sacred and significant principles in our Heavenly Father’s plan for his children, and to express appreciation and admiration for so many who so willingly and unselfishly manifest this principle in the way they live.I speak of that second commandment, linked inseparably by the Lord Jesus Christ with the “first and great commandment,” being indeed “like unto it. … On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets,” he said The Apostle James called the second commandment the “royal law”  Paul wrote to the Corinthians that “all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself” Christ’s ministry and his teachings leave no room to doubt with what seriousness we must accept and apply this sacred instruction. As he taught the law of love, Jesus was asked, “And who is my neighbour?”  In answer he told the story of a man traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho who fell among thieves and was robbed and wounded and left at the wayside half dead. A priest and a Levite came by, and “looked on him, and passed by on the other side” Into this scene came a Samaritan, a man to whose people and cities the Twelve had been forbidden to go (see  and he stopped and gave immediate and continuing aid to the troubled man. Jesus said: “Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?“And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise” Can there be any question as to the meaning of that story?It would be difficult to find anyone offering resistance in principle to the virtue of giving service to others, yet there may be some who do not understand the place of vital importance in the fundamentals of our faith that Jesus gave it. For him, in his life and teachings, it was not an option. Indeed, he declared that without it one could not qualify for the greatest of eternal blessings—eternal life (see  The scriptures consistently so teach—acts of Christian service are expressions of Christian love. My observation and experience confirm the truth of it for me.Religion is not a thing apart from life. It is not principles and ordinances or missionary work or leadership as an end in themselves. It is manifested by the kind of people we are, by our relationship with our Heavenly Father and his Son and all of the commandments, by the measure in which we qualify for the approval of our own Spirit-guided conscience, and by the way we treat other people.It is a continuing marvel to me how well and with what grace and unselfish goodness so many live this sacred commandment. And it is sad to think that some may, in a joyless version of “the gospel,” miss the special blessings awaiting on the path established by our Savior and leading to the  joy through Christian service and sacrifice. An ancient rabbinical aphorism comes to mind: “God will hold us responsible for all the wonderful things on earth that we refused to enjoy.”Adversity is all about us and among us. It is an inevitable element of mortality, and all of us have some share in it ultimately. But our religion, centering in the life and mission of the Lord Jesus Christ, helps us comprehend that. God and Christ love us with a mature, perfect love. The plan by which they lead requires mortal instruments of their love. We have the great honor to be invited to be such instruments. We need them, but they also need us. In this service we find the roots of most of those blessings that God wants us to enjoy.Once I was invited by a civic organization to present an award of recognition to the person who had done the most to help handicapped people in the area. When the honored lady, who was herself severely handicapped, came to the podium to receive her award, she walked between two stalwart men assisting her, with another wheeling an oxygen tank on a carrier behind her, helping her to breathe.She protested her unworthiness but accepted the award on behalf of all others who had been helpful to the handicapped. She told how her saintly father had prepared her for her first day at school and then left his office to come home to meet her when she returned. He had prepared her to expect some disagreeable comments from a few who could not handle her physical appearance—the humped back and other problems. These birth difficulties, he had assured her, were no one’s fault—they were the consequence of problems not yet solved in this imperfect and sometimes unfair world. “But,” said he, “if you will always be more fair and more kind to others than a few of them may sometimes be to you, you will enjoy every sweet blessing life affords.”That was her one qualification, she said: she had tried to be more fair and more kind to others than a few of them had sometimes been to her.The sweetness of true Christian service is often experienced in obscurity—in quiet rooms in homes and hospitals and places of confinement, in military barracks and refugee camps, and in other places far from public attention. Usually it is unheralded, but it reflects the standard set by the Savior for those who will “inherit the kingdom prepared … from the foundation of the world.”  These are they who serve the hungry and the thirsty and the naked and the homeless and those who are sick or imprisoned, and who do this after the pattern and in the spirit of him who said, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”  To those who so serve he promised eternal life (see  while to those who fail to minister to the needy he said, “Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.” An inspiring Book of Mormon teaching deals with the mission of Christ, with his “great and last sacrifice,” “infinite and eternal,” [see  in bringing about the Atonement, and with justice and mercy and prayer. After a powerful sermon on prayer and the spirit of it, the prophet Amulek declared:“And now behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold, your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith.” At a time of intense concern to the developing Church, a revelation was received issuing missionary calls, emphasizing the vital importance of ordinances, assigning local leadership of the churches, and then declaring these words: “And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same ”  italics added; see also Through Ezekiel of old the Lord gave us a broader view of the diversity of needs which we are under obligation to serve: “The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither have ye sought that which was lost.” The book of Alma describes a group of people who were forced to leave their homes and country for a new land, where their fellow Christians “did receive all the poor … that came over unto them; and they did nourish them, and did clothe them, and did give unto them lands for their inheritance; and they did administer unto them according to their wants.” That spirit is still operative among the people of the Church. For several years in the refugee camps in Asia, young representatives of the Church have served special mission assignments preparing those choice people to live in this country. An observer who felt the special spirit with which they so selflessly worked wrote: “You people don’t  to talk about your religion. Your values come through like a ton of bricks.”The people whom they served have looked upon them with almost the reverence that they might have bestowed upon the Savior himself. And when they have experienced this purifying blessing—the blessing of service—the missionaries have returned to their regular labors or to their homes with these solemn testimonies: “This was the most decent thing I have ever done. My life will never be the same again.”Across the world, such individual investment of self in service is happening, following the example and teachings of the Lord, who laid upon the altar his very life for the blessing of others.In this city at this moment, a noble, unselfish young lady who has experienced her own travails serves nearly around the clock at the bedside and in the anxious home of her sorely ill sister, having interrupted her own cherished and long-struggled-for graduate studies to help.A promising young man has not returned to a prestigious university in the East because he has discovered during his summer break at home that a friend, with whom he had foolishly tampered briefly with an addictive substance which he himself then quit and never touched again, has gone on with the habit and is now addicted. The scholar stays home to help, saying that this is the most important thing he has to do.The royal law of love is of sacred significance in the Lord’s program for his people—an element as vital as any other in the gospel. It is inseparable from them and the spirit of them. It is well known to us institutionally; indeed, the Church to which we have the honor to belong is celebrated for knowing and acting upon it on occasions of great need across the earth.My purpose this morning has been, in these few words, to honor that commandment and those who do so well personally to accept his invitation to impart to others “both temporally and spiritually, according to their needs.” That we may do so, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.