My beloved brethren of the priesthood, I am honored yet humbled by the assignment to speak to you this evening. I am aware of the great priesthood power that you faithful brethren bear and of the untold good you do in furthering the Lord’s work.How pleased I was today to raise my hand in sustaining Elder Richard G. Scott as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and I’ll have the privilege to sit on his left, for many years.During the two years since my call to be a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, I have refined my view of the Church and its place in the world. I have developed a deeper gratitude for the gospel, a broader affection and admiration for the members, and a greater appreciation for the love our Heavenly Father and his Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, have for each one of us. They have shown us the way to be at peace with ourselves and the way to progress and develop.I have appreciated the privilege of associating regularly with the Brethren of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and with the other General Authorities. These great leaders, whom the Lord has called to direct his work, have a pure love for the people. They are compassionate and sensitive, especially to those who are ill, infirm, or less fortunate. They feel a driving urgency to build the kingdom of God, and they devote their time and energy totally to this work. Their prayers, which truly are expressions of gratitude and sacred pleadings for guidance, are a source of inspiration to me. I testify to you that the Spirit of the Lord is present at our meetings and guides our deliberations.Being members of the Church truly is a privilege and an honor. We must be as Paul the Apostle and never be ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ (see  nor feel threatened when the Church, its leaders, its members, or its doctrines are criticized or maligned. On the contrary, we should be bold and assertive in proclaiming the gospel. We should be grateful to participate in this great latter-day movement.I wish to speak first to the young men who bear the Aaronic Priesthood. I want you to understand that we have trust and confidence in you. We realize that from your ranks will come the next generation of Church officers, teachers, and community leaders. Most importantly, you will be fathers and patriarchs in your own families. Your tasks then will be to teach and prepare the generation that follows you. My counsel to you is very simple. In the words of the Lord, “Prepare ye for that which is to come.” The best source of instruction, guidance, and counsel that most of you young men have is your parents. In the divine wisdom of our Heavenly Father, each of you was born to parents who arrived on this earth a few years ahead of you. They have been over the ground you young men are covering now. They have learned what leads to success and happiness and what leads to misery and sorrow. Seek their counsel, listen to them, and learn from them. You will learn from your own experiences also, but you do not need to make every mistake yourselves. In our society, young people often see parents as the past and friends as the future. Magazines, movies, and music made for teenagers often emphasize going your own way and dismissing parents as naive. Avoid that kind of thinking; it is false. Your parents are wise. They have a maturity that comes only from experience. The Lord has given them the fundamental task of teaching, guiding, and caring for you and helping you prepare for the challenges that are necessary for your growth and progress. (See    When I was a young man, I looked up to my priesthood leaders. They included Charles E. Forsberg, my bishop when I was five years old. His English was somewhat broken, but he knew my name. That was important to me even at that early age. Others of my priesthood leaders were my father, who also was my bishop, and Marion G. Romney, who followed my father as bishop of our ward. These leaders made a big difference in my life; your leaders will do the same for you if you stay close to them.Sooner or later, every young man must decide on the direction of his life—whether he will choose good or evil, happiness or misery. The God-given principle of agency provides that right of choice in a world filled with beautiful, heavenly creations on the one hand and with the evil designs of Satan, the enemy of God, on the other. Always have the courage to make the right choice. You can do it because “it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from evil.”  We learn that in the Book of Mormon. The Lord has given you that judgment. Remember, “God … will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able.” Always be aware of the privilege you have received of bearing the priesthood of God. It is a unique gift to the world. Bearing the priesthood is an honor and an opportunity, connected with a sacred obligation to magnify every priesthood calling. See every assignment as a blessing, regardless of how small or routine it may seem. Complete each one as well as you can, always striving to do more than is required or expected. Recognize that you are acting for the Lord by authority you have received from him each time you gather fast offerings, bless or pass the sacrament, baptize, and visit assigned families as home teachers. Your ability to accept greater tasks will depend on how well you do the lesser ones.Each one of you young men should be preparing for missionary service. Make yourselves worthy to receive a mission call by learning and living the principles of the gospel, especially by living clean, pure lives. Those who bear the priesthood must never defile it or bring shame to the Lord’s church. Prepare also by studying the divine principles of the gospel so you can teach them to those who are awaiting the truth. Lastly, prepare yourselves financially. The world needs the gospel message; you need to help declare it.In these latter days when keeping the commandments of God is unimportant to many, you young men have a greater challenge to honor the priesthood than any who have held it at any other time. This is true because Lucifer is on the prowl. He knows that his days are numbered. He has learned how to destroy people, especially the youth. He seeks to find any chink in the armor of each person. He knows our weaknesses and knows how to exploit them if we allow him to do so. We can defend ourselves against his attacks and deceptions only by understanding the commandments and by fortifying ourselves each day through praying, studying the scriptures, and following the counsel of the Lord’s anointed.I remind you brethren who bear the Melchizedek Priesthood that the seed of the present is the harvest of the future. I urge you, as fathers and as priesthood leaders, to focus more attention on teaching, guiding, and shepherding these young men, especially by example. The Lord has given you that obligation. Remember, the lambs have little chance of following the right path if the shepherd goes astray.The Melchizedek Priesthood has been given to relatively few of our Heavenly Father’s children. You have received it to magnify your callings in doing the Lord’s work. You are to exercise the priesthood in setting the spiritual tone and building a spiritual foundation in your families. You brethren have a solemn duty to bless your wives, children, and other family members by the power and authority of the priesthood.I hope you single adult brethren will follow our prophet’s admonition to marry at the proper time and will not procrastinate your opportunity to be a husband and father. That is the order of the gospel. President Benson meant what he said when he declared: “Understand that temple marriage is essential to your salvation and exaltation.” ( May 1988, p. 51.) I would add: better late than never. Many lovely, faithful women are waiting for this privilege. Do not disappoint them, the Lord, or yourselves. Do not fear the added responsibilities that come with marriage.I believe that a noble priesthood bearer should have balance in his life. I have observed that some fathers spend too much time watching sports on television. This practice has almost become an addiction in today’s world. It should never cause us to neglect family and Church duties. Television is out of control in some homes; the set is rarely turned off, regardless of the programming. Some programs are filthy and evil and are poisoning the minds of God’s children today. Likewise, many movies and videotapes are blatantly corrupt and evil, making their viewers insensible to the promptings of the Spirit. (See  Satan has made the television and film media among his most effective tools to destroy minds and souls.A good example of satanic influence is in television advertising for alcoholic beverages. Its underlying message seems to be that the sole object of life is to have a good time. This so-called fun-loving time comes to those who drink a certain brand of alcoholic beverage, they say. Brethren, that advertising message is false; it is an absolute lie fostered by the father of lies. Especially insidious, in my view, is the advertising for wine coolers, which are represented falsely as little more than delicious, fruit-flavored soft drinks. Beer consumption is represented as the thing to do in order to have a good time. Drinking alcoholic beverages does not bring the good things of life. Evidence mounts each passing day to prove the damaging, even disastrous effects of these substances on the human body and on society. The Word of Wisdom was valid when it was given in 1833. Through the years some have not accepted it, but scientific discoveries in our day have validated this great revelation.Despite the concerns I have expressed, many uplifting and inspiring programs are available at little or no cost on television, film, and videotape. I speak for wisdom and balance in accepting the good and rejecting the evil.May I say a word about the moral ramifications of gambling. As it has in the past, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints stands opposed to gambling, including government-sponsored lotteries.Public lotteries are advocated as a means of relieving the burden of taxation. It has been clearly demonstrated, however, that all too often lotteries only add to the problem of the financially disadvantaged by taking money from them and giving nothing of value in return.In several states in the United States next month, the lottery issue will be on the referendum ballot and citizens in those states will be able to vote on the measure.We urge members of the Church to join with others with similar concerns in opposing the legalization and government sponsorship of lotteries.I pray that as bearers of the priesthood, we will follow the example of Peter, the Apostle whom the Savior selected to head his church. While Peter and John were going into the temple, a man who had been lame from birth and had been placed at a gate to the temple asked them for help. Apparently he expected to receive money. “Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up.” The phrase “lifted him up” is, to me, a key point in this miracle. That is what the priesthood does. To be lifted up in this sense means to “be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof.”  You brethren can trace your priesthood authority directly to the Savior. The priesthood lifts us and enables us to do things far beyond our own unassisted abilities if we are worthy to exercise it. Also, it gives us the power and authority to lift others. In fact, it places on us the obligation to lift all who come under our influence, much as Peter lifted the afflicted man.The Lord has lifted up his prophets, both ancient and modern. The latter-day prophets, from Joseph Smith to President Ezra Taft Benson, are representatives of the Lord. The world may not recognize them, but God speaks through them. The doctrines of the Church are determined by revelations from God, not by councils out in the world.A few weeks ago we visited the Sacred Grove near Palmyra, New York. The experience was most inspirational as I walked on that holy ground. The Holy Ghost reconfirmed to me that the First Vision did occur, and, in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, “I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—” You brethren are entitled to call on the Lord for guidance just as Joseph Smith did in his fifteenth year. You should have the same quest for truth and the same desire to know what you should do and how you should act. Remember, he went into the grove and prayed for guidance to know for himself which church was right and how he would know it. (See Brethren, the mission of the Church is much more than a lofty ideal conceived at Church headquarters. It should be a part of the personal mission of every member. Each one of us should incorporate into our lives the practice of inviting all to come unto Christ by “proclaiming the gospel, perfecting the Saints, and redeeming the dead.” (Ezra Taft Benson,  May 1988, p. 84.) We must not let the demands of the world divert us from this sacred mission.Key statements made by latter-day prophets are not trite clichés. They are vital counsel to us from the Lord through his prophets. We should ponder and act upon such statements as “No other success can compensate for failure in the home,” by President David O. McKay (in Conference Report, Apr. 1964, p. 5); “The greatest of the Lord’s work you brethren will ever do as fathers will be within the walls of your own home,” by President Harold B. Lee ( July 1973, p. 98); and “The Church is at a point in its growth and maturity when we are at last ready to move forward in a major way. … We have paused on some plateaus long enough. Let us resume our journey forward and upward,” by President Spencer W. Kimball ( May 1979, p. 82).I bear my witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. This is his church; he directs it through his prophets. Joseph Smith is the prophet of the Restoration. President Ezra Taft Benson is the present prophet of God. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I join in welcoming all the new Brethren, including Elder Richard Scott to the Council of the Twelve.Years ago, Elder Scott was called as a mission president. The distinguished admiral for whom he worked was puzzled and even upset that Elder Scott accepted that call. Later, that same admiral, a distinguished public servant, wrote a book called  I suggest the admiral’s question concerning that call is answered in the title of his book, which has some applicability today as well, as the Lord has called one of “the best.”Sincerely striving to follow Jesus will try our faith and our patience—sometimes sorely. (See  Even with all its travail, however, it is the trek of treks.As we all know, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ gives us abundant answers. But Jesus also asked some searching questions which tell us even more about the stretching journey of discipleship. To those who inquired about His authority, Jesus, in turn, put a pointed question, saying, “Answer me”  They could not. (See  To all His applicable questions, the invitation “Answer me” stands to this day. inquired Jesus concerning the healed lepers who did not return with thanksgiving.  italics added.) How often are we like the nine? To receive God’s blessings without acknowledging their Source is to be unrealistic as well as ungrateful.We offend God not only by our ingratitude, brothers and sisters, but also by not confessing His competent hand in bringing to pass His transcending purposes on the earth. (See  Too many actually doubt God’s plans will finally prevail. Not only in the years ahead, but even now, mortal self-sufficiency will be confounded. Profound fear will eventually pervade this perplexed planet. (See   Would that mankind could live in faith, not fear—and with gratitude, not forgetfulness.Besides, we are all beggars anyway (see  beggars rescued by the Creator of the universe who lived humbly as a person “of no reputation.”  In contrast, we are sometimes so anxious about our personal images, when it is His image we should have in our countenances. (See  Jesus counter-challenged.  italics added.) Can we not keep the spirit of the law without leaving other things undone? Without such spiritual balance, staying on the straight and narrow path will be a great trial for us. (See Even seeking after things which are praiseworthy or lovely [see  is accelerated by believing all the Articles of Faith which precede article thirteen. Similarly, the followers of the Ten Commandments are not divided into two vast platoons—one specializing in the “thou shalts” and the other in the “thou shalt nots.” [see True orthodoxy consists of keeping the doctrines, ordinances, covenants, and programs of the Church and Christian service in proper balance. In this daily balancing process, we are not excused from exercising good judgment—after all that manuals and handbooks can do. asked Jesus, using a coin now extinct, and exposing those seeking to entrap Him, while giving counsel relevant for as long as there are mortal rulers. (See  Yes, to Caesar we owe taxes. But to God, in whose image we are minted, we owe ourselves!In our members’ diverse and sometimes stressful situations the world over, can we not follow the twelfth article of faith, rendering appropriately unto God and Caesar? After all, Jesus’ immediate audience was a repressed people living under a military protectorate supporting corrupt civil authority. (See  Though imperfect, we mortals do good, sometimes much good. But can we keep mortal goodness in perspective? Comparatively, we are so much quicker to return favors and to pay our debts to mortals—and we should be responsive and grateful. But what of Him who gave us mortal life itself, who will erelong give us all immortality, and who proffers to the faithful the greatest gift of all, eternal life?We are poor bookkeepers, indeed! queried Jesus with a deep sigh. (See  The more wicked and adulterous the people of a particular period, the more they demand signs as a condition of belief. Sensual individuals crave and live by sensations. Disciples, instead, walk and “overcome by faith”  accepting gratefully the evidence of things not seen which are true (see   and using quietly God’s spiritual gifts. the resurrected Jesus inquired one by one of the Nephite Twelve. (See  He knows our individual bearing capacities. He will lead us along, not herd us. (See   Foremost, the gospel can even educate our desires; then these desires can work affirmatively in us and for us.Are we really ready, however, for the responsibility and the high adventure of being tutored by Him who genuinely wishes to honor our individual desires, if we do not desire amiss?As for what God gives differentially to others, we need not be concerned. Peter, inquiring about John’s future role, was asked by Jesus, “What is that to thee? follow thou me.”  Sometimes, brothers and sisters, we do too much comparing and too little following. Sometimes also a few resent God’s having chosen someone else; perceiving themselves as passed over, they then go under spiritually.  However the world ignores or responds to it, this is the reverberating and the great question! (See  Can we answer with both our lives and our tongues, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God”?  Until we can, whatever else we say and do will, in the end, make little difference.  the Master asked His disciples after many of his fair-weather followers went back, and “walked no more with him.”  The very process of daily living makes and breaks followers. Life’s stern seasons and storms overturn those not grounded and rooted. (See    However, those who “believe and are sure”  about Jesus’ divinity do not panic, for instance, at the arrival of a new volley of fiery darts; they merely hold aloft the quenching shield of faith.Such are but a few of Jesus’ searching questions.May I add several much lesser questions of my own? Some are addressed to all, and some to members as we follow the counsel of an ancient prophet to “consider [our] ways.” Why is our life-style sometimes blurred and out of focus when we have been told clearly what “manner of men” and women we ought to be?  see also  Of course, as individuals, we are free to choose! But wrong choices will make us less free. Furthermore, erosive error gradually makes one less and less of an individual. God and His prophets would spare us that shrinkage.Why are a few members, who somewhat resemble the ancient Athenians, so eager to hear some new doubt or criticism? (See  Just as some weak members slip across a state line to gamble, a few go out of their way to have their doubts titillated. Instead of nourishing their faith, they are gambling “offshore” with their fragile faith. To the question “Will ye also go away?”  these few would reply, “Oh, no, we merely want a weekend pass in order to go to a casino for critics or a clubhouse for cloakholders.” Such easily diverted members are not disciples but fair-weather followers.Instead, true disciples are rightly described as steadfast and immovable, pressing forward with “a perfect brightness of hope.”  see also Why do we resist and resent life’s developmental and obedience tests? By declaring, “I will walk in my own way and do that which is right in my own eyes,” we reject the curriculum of the mortal school in which we are irrevocably enrolled. (See   There is only one exit gate leading unto eternal life. Unhappily, only a few find it—but not because God is exclusionary, but because they exclude God from their lives. Even God cannot bring to pass a reconciliation involving only one party.Why do some think adultery and similar sins are permissible as long as anything else they do is commendable? The Lord’s focus is not on the one thing we do which is good, but, instead, on the one or more things we still lack in order to have eternal life. (See   To compose a symphony, to win a battle, or to save a company—each can be a commendable and worthy entry in the book of life, but these do not fully compensate for breaking the seventh commandment. In the arithmetic of heaven, several commendables do not cancel out one inexcusable! The clear command from Jesus is to deny ourselves immorality and “to take up [the] cross daily,” not to indulge ourselves and to take up the cross occasionally!  see also  The Old Testament advises, “He that ruleth” himself is better “than he that taketh a city.” Why do some of our youth risk engaging in ritual prodigalism, intending to spend a season rebelling and acting out in Babylon and succumbing to that devilishly democratic “everybody does it”? Crowds cannot make right what God has declared to be wrong. Though planning to return later, many such stragglers find that alcohol, drugs, and pornography will not let go easily. Babylon does not give exit permits gladly. It is an ironic implementation of that ancient boast, “One soul shall not be lost.” The philosophy of ritual prodigalism is “eat, drink, and be merry, … [and] God will beat us with a few stripes.” This is a cynical and shallow view of God, of self, and of life. God never can justify us “in committing a little sin.”  He is the God of the universe, not some night-court judge with whom we can haggle and plea bargain!Of course God is forgiving! But He knows the intents of our hearts. He also knows what good we might have done while AWOL. In any case, what others do is no excuse for the disciple from whom much is required. (See  Besides, on the straight and narrow path, there are simply no corners to be cut. (See Why do some crush and break the tender hearts of spouses and children through insensitivity and even infidelity? Unable to sustain lasting relationships, shouting, in effect, “I am my own, I am in charge!” they retreat like cowards from their real responsibilities. (See  In such pathetic men or women, so strong is the competition between self-pity and self-indulgence that these urges both come in second! Furthermore, just as gender was of no saving significance in the self-destructive dash of the Gadarene swine to the sea, neither is it today.God’s work is one of finding, helping, reconciling—not of leaving, betraying, and deserting. Betrayed Uriah, deserted in the fray, represents many. (See In closing, these next observations underscore both the majesty and the humility of Him who said simply, “Answer me.”Though crucified briefly between two thieves, Jesus now sits eternally on the right hand of God! (See   He is the Lord of the constructed universe, yet He was known merely as “the carpenter’s son.” He fashioned worlds without number, providing us with astrophysical awe when we view even “the least of these.”  Yet, to aid just one blind man—with clay formed from spittle, “He from thick films [purged] the visual ray, / And on the sightless eyeball [poured] the day.” (Alexander Pope, in Frederic W. Farrar,  New York: E. P. Dutton and Co., 1893, p. 394; see Jesus was weary but never bored. He was ever tutoring, but never condescending. His doctrines are like glistening diamonds with many dimensions, displaying their verity and beauty, facet by facet, depending on the faith and preparation of the beholder.Jesus had access to immense power but never used it improperly. He refused to put on a show for sign-seeking Herod. (See  Legions of protective angels waited Christ’s command, a command which never came. (See Jesus was often misunderstood and rejected. But He felt most forsaken and alone on Calvary—just as the final act of the Atonement was enveloping mankind in His eternal love. Ironically, during the moments when in agony He was benefiting billions upon billions of mortals, He was attended by only a faithful few.His infinite atonement affected every age, every dispensation, and every person. (See   Hence the appropriate symbolism of His bleeding at each and every pore—not just some—in order that “as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.” There will be no end to the ripples of the Resurrection resulting from the infinite Atonement. There will be no end either to the posterity of those who receive eternal life—eventually more posterity than the stars in the heavens. (See  How infinite indeed!These observations describe only in small part Him who said, “Answer me,” reminding us from Whom that invitation has come. May we, brothers and sisters, answer Him with the entirety of our lives, sincerely singing, “We feel it a pleasure to serve thee, And love to obey thy command.” ( 1985, no. 19.) May we be thankful for all God’s prophets in every dispensation, including President Benson, I so pray in the name of the Lord of all the prophets, even Jesus Christ, amen.