On a number of occasions, President Harold B. Lee stated that there is no need for a new organization to take care of the needs of the Saints. All we need to do is to have the priesthood of the Lord go to work.Brethren of the priesthood, we have a great responsibility. We have a great task. We have all been called. But have we been chosen? If we don’t feel that way, we probably have not been chosen. The Lord has been explicit in his direction for us in preparing ourselves. In Revelation he says: “As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.“Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.” That is the direction, my priesthood brethren.Two of our missionaries knocked on a door one day. It was opened by a man in his seventies. He said, “No, I don’t think I am interested, but let me ask my sister and my mother. They may want to talk to you.” He was in his seventies, his sister was in her eighties, and their mother was ninety-nine.The missionaries taught them, and a baptismal date was set. Mother became so excited and happy that she ended up in the hospital. So another baptismal date was set. Now, this is the important thing. In the testimony meeting after Mother was baptized, she said, “I have been waiting eighty years for this. When I was twenty years old, the missionaries taught me, but they did not invite me to enter the waters of baptism. How happy I am for this day.” She had reached her one-hundredth birthday when she was baptized.I am so humbled and so grateful for the calling that has come to me and for the love and the respect that I feel from all of the chosen Apostles and prophets of our Heavenly Father. I feel a great spirit of brotherhood and love for each of these Brethren seated here on the stand this day. I support and sustain this great prophet and those associated with him and pray humbly that the Lord will direct me and bless me with those things that are needful and necessary that I might magnify my calling in the priesthood.May we all have the desire to accomplish this so there will be no one that will be able to say, as is recorded in Psalms, “I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I remember sitting in this hall years ago and listening to Elder Hartman Rector, Jr., give his first talk in a general conference. His first words were, “This is a traumatic experience for a convert.” Elder Rector, this is not an insignificant experience for one born and reared in the Church, either. I am grateful for that rearing.Last Wednesday I was in Idaho and telephoned to Phoenix and learned that President Hinckley was trying to reach me. I called him that morning and made an appointment to see him Thursday afternoon. Wednesday afternoon I joined with other members of my family at the funeral of my mother, who had passed away here in Salt Lake City the previous Sunday at the age of ninety-five. She joined my father, who had preceded her twenty-two years ago, and my wife, who had joined him four years ago.I am grateful for them. I have prayed since Thursday afternoon that a kind and loving Heavenly Father would let them who had been such an influence in bringing me to this position be aware of it. I am confident they were.I remember as a young boy about to receive the priesthood my father calling me to him and saying, “Albert, if you ever have to choose between me and the Church, choose the Church.” Thankfully, I never had to make such a choice. As my own sons reached that same age, I gave them the same charge.I promised President Hinckley on Thursday afternoon, and now tonight I would like to do so again to the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and these other Brethren that I desire to dedicate my all and serve to whatever extent I am asked.Four years ago I began service in the Mesa Arizona Temple as a sealer. During these years, I have had an opportunity to gain a greater appreciation, understanding of, and testimony of the exalting ordinances of the priesthood. That service, on the heels of a delightful three-year mission experience in New York City, has taught me the importance of the priesthood and its ordinances and the eternal nature thereof.I bear you my witness that I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ, that this is the Church of Jesus Christ. My current wife, my bride of fifteen months, has promised that with Rosemary, my first wife, pulling for me on the other side of the veil, and with her pulling for me on this side, I will succeed. I know that with the help of the Lord I will succeed. To him I promise to give my all, in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.