The story is told that on one occasion, a traveler asked a farmer who was seated in the doorway of his humble cabin, “How’s the cotton crop going to be this year?”The farmer replied, “There won’t be any. I didn’t bother to plant it because I was afraid of the boll weevil.”Upon hearing this, the traveler asked further, “Well, are you going to harvest a big corn crop?”“It’s the same,” came the response. “I was afraid we wouldn’t get enough rain for the kernels to mature.”The traveler pursued, “At least you will have a good potato harvest!”“Nope. Not any; I didn’t dare plant them because I was afraid of insects.”With frustration, and somewhat impatiently, the traveler then asked, “Well, what is it that you have planted?”“Nothing, my good man,” came the answer. “I’d rather be safe than sorry.”The response from the farmer is a good example of a false security arising from fear and lack of conviction. It is an illusion of security resulting from uncertainty and confusion, an imaginary safe route definitely confused and distorted.Certainly this is one of the evils which afflicts this generation—the security of not doing, the security of not being. It is the same type of evil that the Savior referred to when he pointed out the uselessness of the unprofitable servant (see  of the fig tree that didn’t bear fruit (see  of the light that did not shine (see  and of the salt that had lost its savor (see Jesus Christ did not alter concepts in order to make incorrect actions compatible with a false sense of reality; he always clarified them in order to eliminate neutrality and ambiguity and to expose hypocrisy and deviant actions, thereby setting the standard by which the children of God will be judged.He described things as they were and lived his life as a clear example to us all of how to live and how to act, even saying, “For I have given you an example” Today there are many people, just as the farmer in our story, who, out of fear, create within themselves mental scarecrows and eventually end up believing that these scarecrows are real. In this manner they base their lives on false principles. It is unimportant to them that their ideas are not true; these ideas are the trenches they dig to defend themselves from fear, the commotion they make to drive away the truth. For example, the “scarecrow” of security is a confused and distorted imitation of true security. It provides these people with the illusion they need to weigh different situations and act as they want, using as their yardstick precepts totally apart from reality.In the face of this distorted understanding of the truth, Latter-day Saints who have received the assignment through revelation to “take upon you the name of Christ, and speak the truth in soberness”  could appear to be proud and lacking humility to those who hold to incorrect concepts. This is because faithful members of the Church are filled with a deep assurance that comes from a firm testimony of the gospel, a sure knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we have embarked, received through revelation from the Holy Ghost.This assurance and firm commitment “to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death”  could appear as boastful pride before those accustomed to using mental scarecrows.But it is not that way. To confuse pride with safety, and vanity with testimony, shows lack of understanding by those who have not allowed the tempering of the Spirit to enter their hearts, who have not had the experience Nephi did when he said, “I did cry unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken by my father” So in most cases the problem is not with the sower, but with the soil where the seed is planted, and very often those who are insecure challenge the self-confident person, not necessarily because of his self-confidence but because, by comparison, their own insecurity becomes evident.The important point is not to look for causes of insecurity, but rather to look for reasons why faithful members of the Church of Jesus Christ have such a deep assurance in their lives.A powerful example of this is the Prophet Joseph Smith, who searched for an explanation for the persecution he endured, yet at the same time testified to the truthfulness of his vision:“I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that light I saw two Personages, and they did in reality speak to me; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen a vision, yet it was true; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, and speaking all manner of evil against me falsely for so saying, I was led to say in my heart: Why persecute me for telling the truth? I have actually seen a vision; and who am I that I can withstand God, or why does the world think to make me deny what I have actually seen? For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do it; at least I knew that by so doing I would offend God, and come under condemnation.“I had now got my mind satisfied so far as the sectarian world was concerned” What better way could he express the reality of his vision than to say, “I knew it, and I knew that God knew it”?From this powerful and firm testimony, this knowledge from on high, came the assurance as portrayed by the words of the Prophet. How could it be otherwise since Joseph Smith had the sure knowledge that he knew that God knew what he knew?Is this pride? Definitely not. This is assurance that comes from knowing. This is a sure knowledge which, through the Holy Ghost, “shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart” This is the assurance found in the lives of faithful Latter-day Saints, coming from a change brought about by the power of the Spirit, that prompts them to bear testimony of the divinity of the work. It is that same conversion, that same power, that same Spirit which Alma experienced when he called the people to repentance. In his search to remove scarecrows from the people he said, “Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety?“Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of revelation which is in me” The world may claim that this is pride, but members of the Lord’s kingdom, those who do not live by borrowed light, those who have gained a testimony for themselves that this work is true, call it assurance.It is the testimony, it is the true knowledge that “God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind”  This gives us the courage, the strength, and the commitment to testify of Christ and his gospel regardless of circumstances or external factors. But for the weak, the unsure, or those who question that the Latter-day Saints are Christians, these circumstances and external factors prove to be more important than learning of Christ and gaining a testimony.The assurance seen in faithful members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the result of being “doers of the word, and not hearers only”  it is the result of striving to “live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God”  instead of talking of God yet not conforming actions to His word, as do those who are insecure. It is this assurance, the firm testimony of thousands of missionaries who are “occupied” with all their “heart, might, mind and strength”  in serving their fellowmen, as contrasted with millions who are “preoccupied” with worldly involvements and give only lip service.It is important, then, in our determination to proclaim the gospel, in our desire to clarify the thinking of confused and insecure people, in our decision to be part of that great work of our Father in Heaven “to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  that we should remember, as King Benjamin admonished his people, to “always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God, and your own nothingness, … and humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith”  “No one can assist in this work except he shall be humble” There is no guarantee of a great reward for anyone; there is no way that any of God’s children can be assured of blessings from the Most High without worthy actions in their lives. The Lord’s blessings are the fruits of obedience to the laws on which they are predicated.Therefore, since we do have the truth, it is fundamental that we do not be boastful about it. Our pride, if it should exist at all, along with our eternal gratitude, should arise from how we make use of that truth and the manner in which we apply it in our lives.We can pass through this mortal existence listening attentively and patiently to the best of instructions, or we can be spectators watching the expounding of great and profound principles without allowing these principles to crystalize within us by applying them in daily living.We are saved only in direct proportion to the knowledge we gain, but the simple accumulation of facts will in no way save us if we do not possess wisdom.Wisdom is not to be proclaimed or exhibited, but rather, it is to be sought, to be treasured; we need to pray for it and then express it by living a worthy life, according to the knowledge we have obtained. Change and the development of talents and hidden qualities in each of us are produced by putting into practice the knowledge we have obtained.What is most important, then, is what we do with our lives. For faithful members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the truth is not an end in itself. Our lives are a constant quest and example of a dynamic relationship between truth and knowledge, between living and being.As President Joseph F. Smith said, “Pure intelligence comprises not only knowledge, but also the power to properly apply that knowledge” ( 5th ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1939, p. 58).In majestic clarity the Savior declared concerning this subject, “My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.“If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself” It is from this principle that Latter-day Saints receive the strength of their testimonies, the assurance of their convictions, as they practice what they preach in their daily lives.To all those faithful Latter-day Saints who share their testimonies concerning the truthfulness of this work in the four corners of the earth, I wish to add mine, with the assurance that I know that God knows I know that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has the power to administer the saving ordinances that crown the efforts of all those who, through an obedient and faithful life, come unto Christ. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I have prayed for the blessings of heaven to be upon my efforts in speaking to you today.Matthew’s New Testament account includes these words of the Savior: “Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit”  and “by their fruits ye shall know them”—whether they be good or evil As Michael Watson was reading the Annual Report confirming the continued growth and expansion of the Church throughout the world, with an increasing number of new converts making possible more stakes and more wards with their increasing numbers of priesthood holders and women in their organizations, and with our growing numbers of missionaries making possible more new missions, I felt a burning in my soul—a feeling of divine affirmation and direction of this work as it comes “forth out of obscurity” This is the church of our Lord Jesus Christ, and it does indeed bring forth fruit worthy of him. Its growth will continue unabated because of the faith of its members and because more men and women are discovering the golden threads of truth, hope, and salvation as they learn gospel principles and are “nourished by the good word of God, to keep them in the right way, … relying … upon the merits of Christ, who [is] the author … of their faith” Outside of our church, many watch in amazement at this consistent expansion in spite of popular secularism. We hope they may one day know of the joy and happiness available to the Saints who hold fast to the iron rod of gospel truth (see  which they treasure as dearly as life itself and which they maintain by their abiding faith.We see the light of the gospel continuing to dawn like a gentle new day upon previous intolerable darkness. It continues to spread out into new frontiers, confirming the revelation to Joseph the Prophet that “the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape”  and all hearts shall be penetrated.The gospel breathes a new life and a new hope and a new and unknown holiness into a troubled world. This we see, and we see the work grow and increase and become more and more irresistible as it spreads like the gentleness of a sea that refreshes the shore upon which it flows.Witnessing this miracle continuing to unfold today, I liken it to the account in Acts where Peter and other Apostles were preaching of Jesus, and the high priests’ council and the Sadducees tried to restrain them from speaking and teaching of Christ by putting them in prison. But an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors, and again they went to the temple to teach the people. [see  Gamaliel, a Pharisee and doctor of the law, halted the council when they would again cast the Apostles in prison, saying:“Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought:“But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God.“And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak … the name of Jesus, and let them go.“And they departed, … rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer … for his name” And—true to their callings as special witnesses of Christ—the Apostles went “daily in the temple, and in every house, they [continued] to teach and preach Jesus Christ” and him crucified The early Apostles fearlessly continued to preach the principles of the gospel, as we do today, calling upon mankind to believe in the Son of God, our Savior, and to repent—to repent and be baptized for the remission of their sins, and to receive the Holy Ghost in preparation to have administered unto them even higher ordinances of the gospel. Those early disciples declared to those seeking truth, in plainness, that as the Holy Ghost rested upon them, filling their hearts with joy, they would know of the doctrine for themselves, whether it be of God or man.The Spirit of truth leads men to righteousness, but we must have a desire to seek truth and to take the time to form spiritual habits and respond to spiritual impressions if we are to keep our souls alive—and is not now the time to begin?A person who has developed spirituality may suffer deeply and know frustration; but yet he is able to continue in showing forth kindness and love because of a power that rises up from his spiritual base that governs his actions and urges him to “speak with a new tongue”  as Nephi said, and to be his best despite obstacles and setbacks.My desire is to aid the cause of truth and righteousness and, like the Apostles of old, to add my witness of the divinity of Jesus the Christ.Tomorrow is Easter! Christians everywhere will commemorate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though the anniversary date may not be accurate, the Easter season should inspire us to study and reflect upon the infinite and eternal atonement of Christ—“the firstfruits of them that slept”  The resurrection of Jesus from the tomb is the most glorious of all messages to mankind.I believe in Christ. As a Latter-day Saint, I believe in Christ with all my heart. We invite all to “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him,” as Moroni declared, “and deny yourselves of all ungodliness”  Without reservation, we declare he is the Son of God and the Savior of the world.Joseph Smith, the first prophet of this dispensation, wrote:“We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.“We believe that through the Atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel”  We believe that Christ came into the world to ransom mankind from the temporal and spiritual death brought into the world by the fall of Adam, that through the shedding of His innocent blood all mankind are raised in immortality and that those who believe and obey His laws are raised unto eternal life.Salvation is administered on the same terms and conditions in all ages. Men must have faith in him, repent of their sins, be baptized in his name, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and remain steadfast to gain life eternal.The Lord God has sent his holy prophets among all men in all ages to declare these things, even as he does today (see King Benjamin, a Book of Mormon prophet, was instructed by an angel sent by the Lord to declare unto his people the coming of the Messiah more than one hundred years before Christ’s birth, “that they may also be filled with joy”  This holy prophet declared:“For behold, the time cometh, … that … the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity, … shall come down from heaven among the children of men, …“And … he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, … even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death; … blood cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of his people.“And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, … the Creator of all things from the beginning; …“And lo, he cometh … that salvation might come … through faith on his name; … [but] they shall consider him a man, … and shall scourge him, and … crucify him.“And he shall rise the third day from the dead” King Benjamin had learned in a vision that Christ would atone for the sins of mankind and judge the world. New Testament narrators, who were actual witnesses, confirmed King Benjamin’s prophetic declarations with this brief account:Before daylight the second morning following Christ’s crucifixion, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James, having prepared fresh spices and ointments, went to the tomb of Jesus and found that the stone had been rolled away. Looking in and not finding the body, they hurried to find Peter and the Apostles and told them what they had found. Peter and John hastened at once to the tomb. John outran his older companion. Stooping down, he gazed in silent wonder into the empty tomb. Entering, Peter saw the burial clothes lying where the body of Jesus once lay. John followed him. And in spite of fear, there dawned upon them the hope, which later would become an absolute knowledge, that Christ had indeed risen; but as yet no one had seen him. The two wondering Apostles returned to their brethren.Mary had stayed at the tomb and was grieving at the entrance when someone approached. Thinking it was the keeper of the garden, she asked where he had laid her Lord. Jesus said to her, “Mary” Jesus himself was standing before her, but he did not appear as she had known him, for he was now risen and glorified. She then recognized our Lord and must have attempted to embrace him, for he said, “Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God” Filled with amazement, she hastened to obey, and repeated that glorious message which would give hope through all future ages and to which she added her personal declaration that she had seen the risen Lord (see “The debt is paid, the redemption made, the covenant fulfilled, justice satisfied, the will of God done,” wrote President John Taylor, “and all power is now given into the hands of the Son of God—the power of the resurrection, the power of the redemption, [and] the power of salvation” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret News Co., 1882, p. 171).Hundreds of years before Christ’s earthly ministry, the prophet Isaiah, foretelling of the establishment of Zion and speaking of Jehovah, the true God, wrote:“Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: …“But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: … and with his stripes we are healed” These thoughtful words from a favorite Mormon sacrament hymn express our heartfelt gratitude for our Savior:I repeat our Lord’s ageless admonition, “If ye love me, keep my commandments” Innumerable blessings have been promised to those who are faithful and obedient to God’s laws. Once a person is true and obedient to the light and knowledge received, he not only develops the ability to use that which has been given but the capacity to receive more knowledge increases, for he now understands and appreciates the gift.People learn obedience by being obedient. We see its fruits. Halfhearted obedience is without reward. The gospel invites vigorous participation in living its principles. God commands that we serve him with all our heart, with all our might, with all our strength, and with the very best of our intelligence.Our Savior instructs us, “Thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times” If we could feel or were sensitive even in the slightest to the matchless love of our Savior and his willingness to suffer for our individual sins, we would cease procrastination and “clean the slate,” and repent of all our transgressions.This would mean keeping God’s commandments and setting our lives in order, searching our souls, and repenting of our sins, large or small. It means loving our neighbor, living an exemplary life, and—high on the list—being good husbands and good wives. It means teaching our children, by example and precept, to walk in the ways of truth and soberness. It means being honest in our affairs, and serving others, which includes sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world, and—with love—to succor those in need.It is my hope that we will all come to know and love our Lord through obedience to his Word sufficiently to qualify for inclusion in the blessed circle of those who have heard of and believed his precious words uttered in the Garden of Gethsemane, his last night in mortality: “And this is life eternal,” he said, “that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent”  to which I add my witness in his holy name, amen.