I have prepared my message especially for you ten- and eleven-year-old girls.When I was a girl of about ten, one summer afternoon a friend and I took blankets and crackers out into the hayfield behind our Idaho home. The hay, in the middle of the summer, was sweet-smelling, lush, and so tall that when we spread our blankets in the middle of the field, we could sit on our blankets and eat crackers with the hay making a wall around us and hiding us from sight. There we were in a world all of our own.We liked to pick the dandelions that grew large and abundantly there. We split their stems lengthwise—have any of you ever done that?—and submerged the stems in the water of the irrigation ditch. As we watched, the dandelion stems began to curl from the end. We split the stem a little farther, and each piece curled until the entire stem was a fluff of curly fibers.It was an afternoon of wonder for us. We were there all alone under that bright, blue, clean, warm sky. It seemed as if God had created this day and dandelion stems especially for us to enjoy. I said to my friend, “Don’t you just feel happy inside?”My friend looked at me and said, “No, I don’t.”I was shattered by her blunt, almost emotionless statement. “Why?” I exclaimed.“Because it won’t last,” she said. “You can be happy for a minute, but not for very long. Life just doesn’t make sense to me.”I didn’t know what to say to my friend that day, but I do now. And I want to talk to you ten- and eleven-year-old girls—my sweet little sisters—and answer my friend, as I speak to you tonight as if we were, you and I, sitting in that beautiful hayfield together.Our Heavenly Father expects and intends for us to be happy. Man is that he might have joy, the scripture says. (See  That means ten- and eleven-year-old girls are that they might have joy as well. Life does make sense because there is a plan—a plan by which we may have joy and be happy here on earth and eternally. My friend didn’t know that.You girls have often repeated in Primary this motto: “I can follow God’s plan for me.” What is the plan? I think you know it.In our pre-earth life we had proved ourselves faithful. We needed to have a chance to show Heavenly Father that we could be obedient when we were away from him, and so he permitted us to come to this earth.Satan was terribly angry that his method of implementing our Heavenly Father’s plan was not accepted. He swore he would turn us away from Heavenly Father.So we have a choice. We can either choose Heavenly Father’s plan, or we can follow Satan. It’s as simple as that. Now, the scriptures tell us that everything good comes from Heavenly Father and that following Satan brings misery and unhappiness. (See   This is important for us to know.My birthday was a few weeks ago, and my children asked me the question they always ask on my birthday or Christmas or Mother’s Day—“Mother, what would you like for your birthday?”I answered them, as I always do, “Sweetheart, just be good so you can be happy.”Their happiness is my fondest desire. Our happiness is our Heavenly Father’s fondest desire. He has given us the gospel of Jesus Christ. We learn his teachings through the scriptures, through revelation, and through our prophet in order that joy might be ours through our own personal goodness, or personal righteousness. He wants us to be good so we can be happy.The great Book of Mormon prophet Lehi, whom you have learned about this year, told his children, “If there be no righteousness there be no happiness.”  When we are good, or righteous, we are following God’s plan.But isn’t it hard to be good sometimes? We struggle with the temptations that come from being human, being mortal in a mortal world. But that, too, is part of the plan. That is where the choice comes in.Lehi also taught his children, “And to bring about his eternal purposes [that is, that we might be happy and glorified forever] … it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter.“Wherefore, the Lord gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other.” Yes, you have a choice. The Lord has given you control of your life by giving you a choice. Let me repeat that. The Lord has given you control of your life. I’m not saying that nothing bad will ever happen to you. You will not always be able to control what others may say or do, but you can control how you will react to them. Temptation, illness, accidents, and tragedy are part of this life. There will be some tough days in your lives—very tough days. But when you follow God’s plan, you can know what to do, and that’s when you are in control. You can decide whether or not you are going to be happy by making choices that will lead you close to your Heavenly Father and away from Satan. You can decide what you will say and do.I think you know what I mean. You have already made some good decisions that have made you happy. You’ve chosen to be baptized. You’ve chosen to attend Church meetings like this one. You may have decided not to use profanity or not to watch bad television programs, or to dress modestly, or to observe the Word of Wisdom. Every day brings many opportunities to choose to follow God’s plan.Susan was eight years old. She had just been baptized. She was playing out in the yard with her sisters and some friends, and she went into the house to get a drink of water. Her mother said, “Susan, dinner’s ready. Will you please call your sisters to eat?” So she went to the door and called to them.They really didn’t want to go in, so they argued and said, “Oh, no, it isn’t time for dinner. You are just teasing us.” And they accused her of not telling the truth.Well, she gathered herself up in all of her eight-year-old dignity, put her hands on her hips, and said, “It is dinnertime. I’m telling you the truth, and you can believe me because I have been baptized.”She knew that her baptism required of her a certain standard of behavior. Her choice was that she would tell the truth, and she was willing to commit to that.Now, I don’t suppose that little girl grew up without ever telling a lie, but as I have studied the word  I have found nothing that indicates that being righteous is being perfect.  are all dictionary synonyms, but not  All of us will make mistakes in our lives, but although perfection is our ultimate destination, righteousness, or goodness, is the chariot to carry us there. How tragic, were we never to climb aboard the chariot or, once aboard, climb off, fearing a wheel would break along the way! Wheels can be mended, and we can begin again to be good, to follow God’s plan for us so we can be happy.Every good thing you do in your life is following God’s plan. Every time you are kind to another person, each time you have courage to do something difficult, each time you do a thoughtful act without being asked, each time you say your prayers, each time you read the scriptures, each time you go to church, each time you help a friend—you are following God’s plan for you.Often the choices are hard because we sometimes want to do what everyone else is doing, or because something frightens us or worries us, or because we really don’t know what is the right choice. When hands were placed upon your head at the time you were confirmed a member of the Church, you were given the Holy Ghost to help you know what your Heavenly Father would have you do and to have the courage to do it. So even when it’s hard, you can pray for answers, you can read in the scriptures, and the Holy Ghost will help you know. Sometimes you will know in your heart what you should do. Sometimes you’ll have a feeling that you should talk to someone else who could help you. Sometimes the answer comes quickly, sometimes it takes a while, and when the answer comes, you be the one to follow that answer.Now, as we contemplate being good and being happy, it is helpful to remember this: It is possible to make a right choice and at the time you make it to feel lonely or rejected or embarrassed. When you have to leave a party, for example, because things are going on there that are not right, or others criticize you for doing something you know is right, you may not feel exactly happy. If this happens to you, remember, what others think of you is far less important than what your Heavenly Father thinks of you and what you think of yourself. Your happiness will be in the comfort you feel inside, knowing that what you have done is right and that your Heavenly Father approves your choice. Eventually, time will prove you right, and others will respect and admire you.I wish that day in the green hayfield that I had been able to help my friend. I knew the plan, but I didn’t know that was what she needed to hear. Life would have made sense to her had she known Heavenly Father’s plan. I hope someone taught her. I wish I had been the one. Today’s world needs ten- and eleven-year-old girls who know the purpose of life and who can with courage and sincerity make a declaration of their determination to follow God.If I had the wish of my heart, I would hear all you ten- and eleven-year-old girls in the Church right now stand and with one voice say together, “I follow God’s plan for me.” Instead, as you sit quietly here in the Tabernacle or watch in your stake center or in your home, let us together make that declaration in our hearts, a private promise to our Heavenly Father in this silent moment. “I follow God’s plan for me.” Only your Heavenly Father knows if you have made this promise, but know that thousands of girls all over the world just now have united with you in that commitment. And I pledge publicly to you, my sisters, that I have made this commitment. I promise you that I will continue repeating it frequently to help me remember. I know God lives and loves us, and I  follow God’s plan for me.Now, in a moment we are going to hear Primary girls of the Holladay Utah Region choir sing. You’ll notice that one word has been changed in this familiar song that makes it now reflect the commitment we have made together tonight. I follow God’s plan for me.I pray that we will keep this commitment, all of us. I hope you will repeat it together often. I hope you’ll write it down and put it where you’ll always see it. I hope you will have many opportunities to say and to sing, “I Follow God’s Plan for Me.” And wherever I go I hope that you girls will come to me and let me know that you have committed to your Heavenly Father always to follow his plan for you.Now, let us go forth as sisters, determined that no force will turn us from our Heavenly Father’s way. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.“Make me an instrument of thy peace.” What meaningful words for the women of the Church!Others, too, teach us of women. In Proverbs we read, “Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.”   The virtuous woman described in Proverbs was a woman who was prepared. She worked willingly, stretched out her hand to the poor, saw to the physical needs of her household, sought after knowledge. She had profound reverence for the Lord. While many of her tasks may appear to be temporal in nature, her blessings were eternal ones.When we speak of preparedness, often our first thoughts center on temporal or physical preparations—food, clothing, shelter. While these preparations are important and necessary, they are not all-inclusive.There is a crucial balance between the temporal and the spiritual aspects of this principle. The Lord has said, “All things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal.” The Lord taught us a very important lesson when he visited the home of his friends Mary and Martha. While Martha attended to the needs of her guest, Mary sat and listened to the words of the Savior.We read: “But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me.“And Jesus answered … , Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:“But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.” In his counsel, “but one thing is needful,” could the Lord have been referring to one thing lacking in Martha’s preparation? Probably. There is need for balance. Our physical preparation—including a clean, orderly home—makes it possible for the Spirit to be present. Likewise, the Spirit of the Lord brings an atmosphere of peace and contentment to our orderly home.One sister told of her preparation to receive a General Authority guest in her home for stake conference. Everything was to be perfect. Extensive cleaning and cooking were done. Her ten children were prepped as to what their roles should be. She worked hard! By the time he arrived she was exhausted and couldn’t enjoy his visit. Too late, she realized that spiritual preparation was “needful” also.She stated, “It is because of our spiritual preparation that we can find answers to our everyday challenges. It is because of our spiritual preparation that we can find joy in enduring and overcoming our trials. It is because of our spiritual preparation that we can feel the greatest joy of all, a nearness and closeness to our Savior and Father in Heaven.”How, then, do we prepare?We prepare by developing a strong relationship with our Heavenly Father through prayer, scripture study, and obedience to the commandments; by knowing our own worth; and by sustaining the priesthood.Qualities of spirituality do not come without effort. Like any other talent with which we are blessed, they must be constantly practiced. A famous pianist once said, “If I fail to practice for one day, I can tell the difference in my playing. If I fail to practice for two days, my family can tell the difference. If I fail for three days, the whole world can tell the difference.” This same principle applies to us in our quest for exaltation.In applying the parable of the ten virgins to our lives, our modern prophets have explained that the oil of preparation is accumulated drop by drop through daily righteous living.Consistently attending sacrament meetings adds oil to our lamps. So too will fasting, praying individually and as a family, visiting teaching, controlling our bodily appetites, teaching gospel principles, nourishing and nurturing, watching over one another, studying the scriptures, keeping the commandments. Each act of dedication and obedience is a drop of oil with which we can refuel our lamps. Keeping the commandments and following the words of the prophet may be the greatest preparation we can make for any eventuality to come.A few years ago while we were serving in the mission field, a minister who was investigating the Church said, “I hear you talk about the benefit of a living prophet. What sort of pronouncements has he made lately?” We replied, “The prophet has taught us that we need to live frugally. We need to stay out of debt, fix up our homes, and plant gardens that we may enjoy the fruit of our labor.” The minister thought for a moment and then said, “That is not what I would have imagined a prophet to say, but as I consider it, what better advice could be given?”Often the advice that is given by our prophets is so simple and practical that we overlook it and fail to heed it.We are taught that we have great worth in the eyes of our Heavenly Father. The Primary children sing, “I am a child of God.” The Young Women recite their theme which begins, “We are daughters of our Heavenly Father, who loves us,” and the prophets have declared that virtuous women are more priceless than rubies.Listen to this simple direction from our prophet to the young women of the Church, which applies to all of us: “Live up to your divine potential. Remember who you are and the divine heritage that is yours—you are literally the royal daughters of our Father in Heaven.” ( Nov. 1986, p. 85.)“Don’t settle for less than what the Lord wants you to be.” ( Nov. 1986, p. 84.)Unfortunately, many of us fail to recognize what the Lord wants us to be. A sister wrote to me recently, telling of some events that led her to realize how much her Heavenly Father loved her and had blessed her. She said:“I have had very low self-esteem and have not felt ‘good enough’ to have a close relationship with [my Father in Heaven]. This has kept me self-centered and unable to serve as effectively as I could. During the last few months I have felt a yearning desire within me, an urgency, if you will, to draw nearer to my Father in Heaven. Lately I have felt his arm around me and his great love extending to me—a beautiful feeling of acceptance. With this have come many gifts: more patience, more self-control, [more understanding]. I know this is the Holy Ghost teaching me.“I have learned when priorities are in order and I prepare personally each day with prayer, scripture study, and physical care, I am happier and a more profitable servant.”We learn from this that we also prepare by serving, teaching, nurturing, and helping others prepare. As we work daily to attain righteousness and a spiritual way of life, we have a responsibility to elevate others, to help them realize their divine potential, and to be an instrument in the hands of God.Yes, being a woman brings blessings and responsibilities. Often there are tasks which, when filled, are without visibility, acclaim, or attendant worldly power. Nonetheless they are vital to the progress of humankind. When we are diverted from our course, serious weaknesses may appear in our lives and in the lives of family members, as well as in society.Because of “the subtle craftiness of men [who] lie in wait to deceive”  many, even of the very elect, are being deceived. How diligently, sisters, we must strive to reach out to those who “know not where to find [the truth”  and bring them home again unto the fold. No effort is too great, no endeavor too much.Our preparation does not always proceed just as we had planned it. My own mother has shared with me some of her goals and aspirations. Often as she began a project, something would happen to change her course of action: a mother-in-law in her waning years needed a home and special care, a younger sister needed help to complete her schooling. There were those with whom she worked who also desperately needed help. She was always there to serve. She gave this service graciously, and though not all her own personal plans were accomplished, she looks back on her life and says that if she had it to do all over again, she wouldn’t change anything. Service to others brings that kind of satisfaction.It is according to our natures, sisters, to have feelings of charity and benevolence. It isn’t always easy to put these feelings into action. But as women, we should pray for charitable desires and opportunities and then work to foster these godlike attributes.I suppose that Emma Smith had more than her share of frustration and disappointment. Her life couldn’t have been easy as she suffered persecution along with her husband, the Prophet. It is reported that shortly before his martyrdom, Joseph sent a message to Emma in answer to her request for a blessing. He was not able to give her a blessing, but told her to write one, and when he saw her again he would sign it. I am impressed with the faith and the righteous intent revealed in her words:“I desire the Spirit of God to know and understand myself. … I desire a fruitful, active mind, that I may be able to comprehend the designs of God, when revealed through His servants … I particularly desire wisdom to bring up all the children that are, or may be committed to my charge, in such a manner that they will be useful … in the Kingdom of God … I desire … that I may wear a cheerful countenance … and be a blessing to all. …“I desire with all my heart to honor and respect my husband.” (Ms., Historical Department, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.)President Ezra Taft Benson has declared, “When we put God first, all other things fall into their proper place or drop out of our lives. Our love of the Lord will govern the claims for our affection, the demands on our time, the interests we pursue, and the order of our priorities.” ( May 1988, p. 4.)We need to put God first and balance our spiritual and temporal preparations, that we might become virtuous women, righteous daughters, instruments in his hands to help prepare the way for his coming.Sisters, “shall we not go on in so great a cause?” as we read in the Doctrine and Covenants. “Go forward and not backward. Courage … and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad.” I pray, sisters, that we will rejoice and go on to victory as we prepare for the second coming of our Savior. I pray that we will not be led away by the subtle enticings of the world that sometimes come to us even from those near and dear to us—the enticings that say to us, “Seek for visibility; seek for power and influence; be sure your own needs are being met.” These are not the teachings of him whose coming we await. He says to us, rather, be the servant of all (see   “let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” I pray that we will not be discouraged and not be led away, not be deceived—but “cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the salvation of God.” I know our Father lives and that Jesus is the Christ. We are engaged in his work. I say these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.