I am sure I speak for all of you when I say how much we have been inspired by this great choir. I think I speak for all of you and especially the Brethren in welcoming these four new members of the First Quorum of the Seventy and sustaining our new leaders, Elder Clarke and Elder Scott.What does it mean to bear testimony? A testimony is an open declaration or confession of one’s faith. To bear is to give or bring forward. So as I bear testimony, I am giving a declaration of my faith.Most of you would gladly bear testimony if called upon. I wish we could yield a minute to each one of you. The real power of the Church is not financial or political, but the quiet testimonies of its members.Members may describe their testimonies as growing. A few say they have lost their testimonies. In bearing testimony, some use the term  some  Some say, “Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.” I desire to edify all, no matter what the status of their testimonies.When Shirley and I returned from the marriage of our son in the Oakland Temple last month, we strolled into the backyard. The lawn had looked particularly healthy and green this summer. To our horror, we discovered that the lawn had withered and turned as if to straw in the few days we had been gone. The automatic sprinkler had failed, and the hot summer sun had scorched the lawn.Testimonies are like our lawn. They may be green and growing, but the heat of summer can change all of that. I shudder when I hear anyone declare, “I will never deny my testimony of the gospel.” I seem to hear another standing by and answering quietly, “Well, we shall see.”We need your testimonies. We cannot afford to lose a single one. “Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main; if a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friends or of thine own were, … therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.” (John Donne,  XVII.)The bell tolls for all of us. To those with strong testimonies I say, keep them growing. To those who have lost their testimonies I say, we need you back once again to take “sweet counsel together, and [to walk] unto the house of God in company.”  Isaiah promised: “They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles.” The parable of the sower teaches us the principles by which we can gain or retain our testimonies and hints of pitfalls which we need to avoid at the peril of losing them.The bottom line is simple enough. The gospel seed must be sown in good ground. A seed planted in good ground will grow into a plant which will yield fruit and have a strong root system to withstand the heat of summer. But the plant must be nurtured and watered.How can we develop that rich and healthy soil in which the word of God can grow? How can we ensure an adequate root system to withstand the heat of summer?I shall offer three principles and three warnings in answer to the questions posed. This will lead to two specific exhortations to all of us.Heavenly Father has given us a priceless gift in our capacity to communicate with each other. Our communications are at the core of our relationships with others. If we are to return home safely to Heavenly Father, we must develop righteous relationships with His children here in mortality.Our communications reflect in our countenance. Therefore, we must be careful not only  we communicate, but also  we do so. Souls can be strengthened or shattered by the message and the manner in which we communicate.