I echo the testimony of our beloved associate, Elder Dallin H. Oaks. With him and the other Brethren, I applaud the efforts of Latter-day Saints throughout the world who willingly serve in building the kingdom of God. Likewise, I respect those who quietly do their duty though deepening trials come their way. And I admire those who strive to be more worthy by overcoming a personal fault or who work to achieve a difficult goal.I feel impressed to counsel those engaged in personal challenges to do right. In particular, my heart reaches out to those who feel discouraged by the magnitude of their struggle. Many shoulder heavy burdens of righteous responsibility which, on occasion, seem so difficult to bear. I have heard those challenges termed As a medical doctor, I have known the face of adversity. I have seen much of death and dying, suffering and sorrow. I also remember the plight of students overwhelmed by their studies and of those striving to learn a foreign language. And I recall the fatigue and frustration felt by young parents with children in need. Amidst circumstances seemingly impossible, I have also experienced the joyous relief that comes when one’s understanding is deepened by scriptural insight.The Lord has often chosen to instruct His people in their times of trial. Scriptures show that some of His lasting lessons have been taught with examples terrible as war, commonplace as childbearing, or obvious as hazards of deep water. His teachings are frequently based on common understanding, but with uncommon results. Indeed, one might say that to teach His people, the Lord employs the unlikely.Warfare, for example, has been known since time began. Even in that ugly circumstance, the Lord has helped those obedient to His counsel. Going into battle, all would assume the obvious advantage of outnumbering an enemy. But when God’s disciple Gideon was leading an army against the Midianites, “the Lord said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many … , lest Israel vaunt themselves … , saying, Mine own hand hath saved me” So the Lord directed Gideon to reduce his numbers. He first decreased the troops from twenty-two thousand to ten thousand.Then the Lord said to Gideon, “The people are yet too many”  So another reduction was made. Finally, only three hundred remained. Then the Lord delivered the victory to the outnumbered few (see Even more widely known than war is an understanding of childbearing. Everyone “knows” that  women do not bear children. So upon whom did the Lord call to bear Abraham’s birthright son? Sarah, at age ninety! When told this was to be, she asked a logical question: “Shall I [which am old] of a surety bear a child?”  From heaven came this reply: “Is any thing too hard for the Lord?” So decreed, she gave birth to Isaac, to carry the crucial Abrahamic covenant into the second generation (see Later, for one of the most important events ever to occur, the other extreme was chosen. As all knew that an elderly woman could not bear children, it was just as obvious that a virgin could not have children. But Isaiah had made this prophetic utterance:“The Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel” When Mary was notified of her sacred responsibility, the announcing angel reassured, “For with God nothing shall be impossible” The expression  means danger! That very hazard challenged the Israelites led by Moses at the Red Sea (see  Later, they were led by Joshua to the river Jordan at flood time (see  In each instance, deep water was divinely divided to allow the faithful to reach their destination safely. To teach His people, the Lord employs the unlikely.Turning to our day, have you ever wondered why the Master waited so long to inaugurate the promised “restitution of all things”  Any competitor knows the disadvantage of allowing an opponent to get too far ahead. Wouldn’t the work of the restoration of the Church have been easier if begun earlier?Suppose for a moment you are a member of a team. The coach beckons you from the bench and says: “You are to enter this contest. I not only want you to win; you shall win. But the going will be tough. The score at this moment is 1,143,000,000 to six, and you are to play on the team with the six points!”That large number was the approximate population of the earth in the year 1830 when the restored church of Jesus Christ was officially organized with six members (see James Avery Joyce, sel.,  4 vols., Dobbs Ferry, New York: Oceana Publications, Inc., 1976, 4:2214). The setting was remote and rural. By standards of the world, its leaders were deemed to be unlearned. Their followers seemed so ordinary. But with them, the work was begun. Assignments had been revealed:The great dispensation of the latter days had commenced, and they were the ones to usher it forth!Furthermore, the Prophet Joseph Smith was unjustly held in the unspeakable isolation of a distant prison. In such obscurity, then and there, he was told by the Lord that “the ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name” If any tasks ever deserved the label  those would seem to qualify. But, in fact, our Lord had spoken: “With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible”  see also   To teach His people, the Lord employs the unlikely.A century and a half later, the burdening baton of that opportunity has now been passed to us. We are children of the noble birthright, who must carry on in spite of our foredetermined status to be broadly outnumbered and widely opposed. Challenges lie ahead for the Church and for each member divinely charged toward self-improvement and service.How is it possible to achieve the “impossible”? Learn and obey the teachings of God. From the holy scriptures, heaven-sent lift will be found for heaven-sent duties. To so achieve, at least three basic scriptural themes loom repeatedly as requirements.In April 1830 the Lord commanded the members of his newly restored Church to “meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus”  This was the same instruction he gave when he introduced this ordinance nearly 2,000 years ago. Luke writes:“And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me” When we partake of the sacrament, we witness unto God the Eternal Father that we “do always remember” his Son (see   Each Sabbath day millions of Latter-day Saints make this promise. What does it mean to “always remember” our Savior?By now you must surely realize that I have given these three examples because the reasons why I will always remember these persons are related to the reasons why we should always remember Jesus Christ: He is our Creator, our Redeemer, and our Teacher.