As the first member of the First Quorum of the Seventy sustained into the Second Quorum of the Seventy in this dispensation, I echo support and sustain this historic action and would want all to know I feel it an honor to serve in this or any capacity in the kingdom of God.My message tonight is directed to the young men of the Aaronic Priesthood. I will admit before all of you: get me to a good football or basketball game, and I’m a happy man. I have four favorite teams. Three of them are professional, and one is a college team—the Jazz, the Nuggets, the Broncos, and the Cougars. When they win, my wife has a hard time keeping me in my seat. When one of these teams loses, I’m not very friendly (and with some of these teams, I’ve had a lot of practice being unfriendly this year). But, after a night’s sleep, I find it doesn’t really matter—not really.But when a young man loses in his preparation for life, that really matters—because that has lasting consequences.Playing ball is a great deal like life. You want to do your best, to be committed, to be a team player. You want to follow the rules so you don’t foul out. You want to make points.The rules in real life are different from those in a game. Our rules are the commandments of God. You make points when you serve your mission, draw close to the Lord, live the Word of Wisdom, stay morally clean, and live a life of service and Church activity.How many points are you making in your life? Are you winning?When you make a basket in a basketball game or kick a goal in soccer, there’s a great feeling of accomplishment and excitement. The same thing happens when you make gospel points. You feel good about yourself. You also feel closer to the Lord. You feel the excitement of knowing you’re doing what God wants you to do.You’re in a different league when you’re shooting for gospel points. It’s a celestial league. You’re one of the Lord’s own sons, and he’s depending on you to do your very best. There are forces of good and forces of evil in the world. You represent the Lord as a force for good. You have come to earth at this time for a special purpose. He has a mission for you to accomplish, a  mission.You’re probably going to have a tough opponent to overcome. Sometimes the media, friends, or other influences will try to pull you away from what is right. Choose to stand with the Lord. Join with the valiant prophet Joshua, who declared, “Choose you this day whom ye will serve; … but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.” To win this most important game of all, you need to make  Let me be your coach for a few minutes. We will talk about plays and assignments—making points for righteousness.The first point to be made is to Be determined to serve a mission. Prepare well for it.The prophet has asked each young man to serve a mission. That usually involves sacrifice. Ofttimes it means you give up something good for something better. It may mean postponing schooling or an athletic scholarship. It means saving money—for a mission instead of a car.It also means sacrificing the things of the world. The prophet Moroni tells us, “Come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and ”  italics added.)The hymn tells us, “Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven.” ( 1985, no. 27.) Do you know that sacrifice purifies our spirits and brings us closer to the Lord?Serving your mission is more than being called and sharing the gospel with your brothers and sisters for two years. That  important, but your mission is also doing what the Lord wants you to do throughout  your life.A mission can change the quality of your life in ways that you can barely imagine. You will find out what that is only as you serve the Lord.Serve your mission. Make a point for righteousness.The second point to be made is to How do you make that point? You make it by taking appropriate time to  having earnest prayer, and fasting. These practices will help your testimony grow.A seminary student said, “I used to think the scriptures were boring—until I started to read them.” At a recent stake conference, a beautiful young woman said in her testimony, “If you think the scriptures are boring, then you are boring.” They discovered that the scriptures provide answers to the problems they may face—with friends, at home, or at school. Gospel principles apply to any time period—Old Testament times or today.The Lord will speak to you through the words of the scriptures. Draw close to the Lord through the scriptures.Take a  to  and as often in between as needed. That’s one of the wonderful gifts the Lord has given you—he’s accessible by prayer any time, any place. He’s always there for you. Tell him your goals, your troubles. Give him thanks for your blessings. Ask him to teach you how you can help do his work. He hears your prayers. He cares about you. He wants you to succeed in living the gospel. Draw close to the Lord through prayer. the first Sunday of each month and also when you need special help from the Lord. Make it a true fast. Fasting is more than abstaining from food. It is more than helping the needy through fast offerings, important as that is. It is a spiritual law as well, just as is the law of tithing or the Word of Wisdom.In a sincere fast, we are given an open invitation by the Lord to draw close to him, to open our hearts to him, to feel his Spirit and pure love. It’s a time to recommit to obeying his commandments.You’ll find there are points to make as you draw close to the Lord through scripture study, prayer, and fasting. Your testimony will grow. While many young men today are starving spiritually, you can grow spiritually.The third point: this is a tough two-pointer; the defense is all over you. Choose not to use drugs or alcohol  you’re tempted. They are destructive to your physical, mental, and spiritual well-being. Using them is wrong. They can destroy you. With drugs there is a high—but, oh, the risk; for you come down harder and lower after each experience. You can truly end up in the depths of hell. Young men, may you know  that drugs dull your conscience so that you discern less clearly between good and evil.President David O. McKay said, “Sin can stun the conscience as a blow on the head can stun the physical senses.” ( Salt Lake City: Improvement Era, 1953, p. 146.)In the Word of Wisdom, the Lord tells us, “In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation.” Conspiring, evil men want to make money by selling drugs, alcohol, and tobacco. They don’t care how much death and pain come as a result. Beware of these merchants of death. Say no to those mind- and body-destroying drugs and chemicals that are ravaging the youth throughout the world. Why indulge when you know they destroy and promise nothing but sorrow? Young men, the ball is in your hands. Make that important goal for righteousness. Live the Word of Wisdom.Point number four: This is a three-point basket that could win the game. Your mission call, your mission in life, and who and where you marry will be influenced by whether you lead a pure and chaste life.Alma taught his son Shiblon the importance of being morally clean. He said, “See that ye bridle all your passions, that ye may be filled with love.”  That is an interesting paradox—true love comes when you bridle your passions, when you use self-control.You should avoid anything that causes you to lose control of yourself or to lose concern for the welfare of another person.Sharing affection can be a very positive, pleasing experience and was given to us by the Lord to strengthen the bonds between men and women. It is part of the force that leads us to marriage. The feelings generated can be very strong, but if you don’t control them, they’ll control you.To be prepared for your life’s mission, you must purify your thoughts and feelings.  have the power to decide, deliberately and intentionally, what images you entertain in your mind and what emotions you feel in your heart.Movies and television often portray premarital sex as an appropriate expression of love between a man and a woman. This is a lie. Sex outside of marriage becomes an expression of selfishness, lack of self-control, and lack of concern for the other person. These actions will bring you unhappiness and are condemned by God.Protect the chastity of young women as you would protect your own life. We hold you priesthood bearers responsible, first and foremost.Live a morally clean life. Make that winning point for righteousness.Point number five is to Be committed to activity in the Church and balance this with service. Service opens windows in your life instead of just mirrors that always reflect yourself.Do more than just attend your meetings—get involved in living and enjoying the gospel. Be a loyal and supportive member of your Aaronic Priesthood quorum and prepare well for the day when you will hold the Melchizedek Priesthood, the priesthood after the order of the Son of God.Of deepest concern in all of your activities is whether you have private prayer, whether you read the scriptures daily as the prophet, President Benson, has asked you to do, and whether you agree with your parents and leaders about important spiritual matters. These are the kinds of things that really determine whether or not you have a testimony and the spiritual stamina to finish the game of life.Now, my young friends, there will be other points you can make for righteousness, too; but I ask you, can you make these five points? Do you have the determination to do your best, to live by the rules, to strengthen your courage and testimony? I know you can. But please, wake up! You are the youth of the noble birthright.There may be some among you who have fouled out. You’ve broken the rules, gotten offsides, moved before the snap, fumbled the ball. The ball—the gospel—is in your hands. Know that a loving Heavenly Father understands your weaknesses and wants you back on his team. Talk to your bishop. He will help you come back. You are needed and loved.Now, young men, I speak as your friend, not as your judge. Practice these five points in your life. Write them down. Put them where you can see them daily. Check your progress frequently. There are points to win and blessings to obtain.You priesthood leaders and fathers, you are the home-field coaches. Review these points with these, your sons. Discuss them in depth. Help these young men work on them. Making these points will help lead them to joy and happiness and exaltation. Of this I testify, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.One of the most important invitations ever issued to us and to all mankind is to “come unto Christ and be perfected in him.”  How do we do that? One of the most beautiful and important ways is through the ordinance of the sacrament.The Lord instituted the sacrament, as we know it today, during what we commonly call the Last Supper. In one sense, it was the last supper, but in another, it was the first supper—the beginning of many spiritual feasts.The resurrected Lord instructed the Book of Mormon people:“[Ye] shall break bread and bless it and give it unto the people of my church, unto all those who shall believe and be baptized in my name.“And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done. …“And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have shown unto you. And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.” The moving tenderness and deep significance of this transcendent event are still available to us today. But we must do as they did and follow the doctrine of Christ, which is to believe in Jesus, rely on him, repent of our sins, take his name upon us by being baptized in his church, receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and faithfully follow Christ all of our lives.He knows we need much help to do this, so he provides that the ordinance of the sacrament be repeated often.This invitation of the Savior to come unto him is issued regularly and is universal. Everyone is included—men, women, and children. Old and young alike participate. None are barred except by themselves.The Lord said, “And ye see that I have commanded that none of you should go away, but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me.” But the Lord, who knows the terrible consequences of hypocrisy, also warned:“Ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my flesh and blood unworthily, …“For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul.” What does it mean to partake of the sacrament worthily? Or how do we know if we are unworthy?If we desire to improve (which is to repent) and are not under priesthood restriction, then, in my opinion, we are worthy. If, however, we have no desire to improve, if we have no intention of following the guidance of the Spirit, we must ask: Are we worthy to partake, or are we making a mockery of the very purpose of the sacrament, which is to act as a catalyst for personal repentance and improvement? If we remember the Savior and all he has done and will do for us, we will improve our actions and thus come closer to him, which keeps us on the road to eternal life.If, however, we refuse to repent and improve, if we do not remember him and keep his commandments, then we have stopped our growth, and that is damnation to our souls.The sacrament is an intensely personal experience, and we are the ones who knowingly are worthy or otherwise.Do you remember the feeling you had when you were baptized—that sweet, clean feeling of a pure soul, having been forgiven, washed clean through the merits of the Savior? If we partake of the sacrament worthily, we can feel that way regularly, for we renew that covenant, which includes his forgiveness.Those who would deny themselves the blessing of the sacrament by not attending sacrament meeting or by not thinking of the Savior during the services surely must not understand the great opportunity to be forgiven, to have his Spirit to guide and comfort them! What more could anyone ask?As we worthily partake of the sacrament, we will sense those things we need to improve in and receive the help and determination to do so. No matter what our problems, the sacrament always gives hope.Most of these problems we must work out ourselves. For example, if we aren’t paying our tithing, we simply determine to start doing so. But for some problems, we must see our bishop—the Spirit will let us know which. Doing what the Spirit dictates always results in blessings.Let me give an example. Some years ago, a young couple we will call the Joneses visited with their bishop about a problem the wife had. The details are not important, but through the direction of the Spirit, the bishop’s decision was that, among other things, Sister Jones would not partake of the sacrament for a period of time while she worked out some attitudes and problems.With lots of love and support, she continued to attend meetings with her family, and few but her husband and the bishop were aware of the situation or even noticed that week after week she did not partake of the sacrament. At first she didn’t feel much difference; but as time went on, she became more and more desirous to be worthy to partake of the sacrament. She thought she had repented before, but as the real soul-searching deepened and as her desire to worthily partake of the sacrament increased, true fundamental changes began to take place in her life and in her actions and in her thinking.More time passed. Finally, during one sacrament meeting, the Spirit bore witness to the bishop and to Brother and Sister Jones that the time had come for her to again partake of the sacrament. “Next Sunday,” the bishop said.Next Sunday came, and Sister Jones sat again with her family, nervous, yet excited and full of anticipation. “Am I really worthy? How I want to be!” she thought. The sacrament hymn was more meaningful than ever. She sang with such feeling that it was difficult to hold back the tears. And the sacrament prayers—how profound! She listened so intently that every word sank deep into her soul—to take his name, always remember him, keep his commandments, always have his Spirit. (See  “Oh, how I desire this,” she thought.The deacons began to move up and down the aisles, and the trays were passed from person to person across the rows. As one young deacon got closer and closer to her row, her heart began to pound harder and harder. Then the tray was coming down her very row. Now her husband was holding the tray in front of her! Tears streamed down her face. There was a barely audible sob of joy, “Oh!” as she reached for the emblem of the Lord’s love for her. The congregation did not hear the sob, but they did notice the tears in the bishop’s eyes.Life and hope and forgiveness and spiritual strength had been given and received. No one could be more worthy. Sister Jones truly  to have his Spirit. She  to take his name upon her. With all her heart, she  to remember him and keep his commandments. She  to repent, to improve, and to follow the guidance of his Spirit.Think of it. Think of what could and should happen in your life, in your ward, in your stake, in the whole Church, in the whole world, if every Sunday individuals—hundreds, thousands, even millions—under the authority of the priesthood of God, took the sacrament worthily and thus repented and sincerely determined to better follow the guidance of the Lord’s Spirit.The life that would be given, the forgiveness that would be obtained, the spiritual strength that would be received! The light that would thus be generated would cause Zion to shine forth brilliantly and would prepare a people pure in heart, ready for the Lord’s second coming in a way that would be marvelous to behold.Brethren, as leaders we must do more to have more people attend sacrament meeting and partake of the sacrament with more worthiness! We must teach more fully, with deeper feeling and greater power, the doctrine of Christ as embodied in the sacrament.You young men must be worthy and realize what a privilege you have to pass the bread and water, the emblems of the Lord’s love for all of us. Think of the blessings you offer—hope, love, joy, forgiveness, freedom, and everlasting life. What a contrast to so many youth who today pass other types of white substances and other kinds of liquids that bring gloom and failure, captivity and death in the deceitful guise of happiness! Oh, the goodness and mercy of our God as he overcomes the cunning of the evil one!I testify from the depths of my soul that these principles are true. Jesus did suffer and die for us. Through him, and only through him, can we have life and the joy thereof, both in time and in eternity.I love the Savior. I feel that as he hung upon the cross and looked out over the dark scene, he saw more than mocking soldiers and cruel taunters. He saw more than crying women and fearful friends. He remembered and saw even more than women at wells or crowds on hills or throngs by seashores. He saw more, much more. He, who knows all and has all power, saw through the stream of time. His huge, magnanimous, loving soul encompassed all eternity and took in all people and all times and all sins and all forgiveness and all everything. Yes, he saw down to you and to me and provided us an all-encompassing opportunity to escape the terrible consequences of death and sin.And even as he suffered for all of us, he voiced that most beautiful of all requests, “Father, forgive them.” We must do our part and cry with full fervor of soul, “Father, forgive me through the merits of thy Beloved Son as I partake of these emblems of his broken body and spilt blood for me. Please, Father, through him, forgive me! Help me to do better.”All life as we know it comes about through the joining of two separate elements—each necessary. The Savior, through his infinite atonement, provides that vital element for us. He asks us to provide the other element—even a broken heart and a contrite spirit—for he will not force us.Think of the symbolism. Think of the power for bringing about a newness of life by worthily partaking of the sacrament.I testify that God our Father lives. I testify that Jesus is the Christ. I know he lives. I know he forgives. I know he loves. I know he smiles tenderly, pleadingly. I know he stands ready to help us—always. I know he guides and directs and blesses with unutterable blessings and unspeakable treasures of eternity. I know he gives knowledge of eternally important things if we desire. I know that worthily partaking of the sacrament is of eternal importance to him and to us.Yes, I know he gives life—in all of its depth of meaning. As the emblems of his love are regularly presented before us, please let us hear, “Father, forgive them,” and respond, “Father, forgive me.” This leads to life—eternal life—in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.