I join with Elder Hansen and all of my brethren newly called to the quorums of the Seventy in expressing gratitude to the Lord for the privilege of this holy calling and opportunity to serve. There is no sufficient way to express either the sense of responsibility or feelings of inadequacy one has in being called to such a ministry. In these many weeks of self-examination, I have repeatedly felt, as Paul once wrote, “pressed out of measure, [and stretched] above strength.” I also wish to express appreciation to my family, who have loved me, prayed for me, comforted and sustained me all of my life—as only a family can. They alone know how deeply I love them. I alone know how much they will mean to me forever.This afternoon I wish to thank you, the faithful members of the Church, for your sustaining vote last April and again this day. It is no small thing to “sustain” another person. The word literally means to “uphold” or, if you prefer, to “hold up.” When we sustain life, we nourish it, we keep it going. When we sustain a friend or a neighbor or a stranger in the street, we give support, we share strength, we provide help. We hold each other up under the weight of present circumstance. We bear one another’s burdens under the heavy personal pressures of life.As with all else in our experience, the Lord Jesus Christ is our exemplar and ideal in this very important matter of providing sustenance. His is the ultimate arm of strength and his the endurance which endures all things. At no time did he demonstrate that unfailing devotion more clearly than during the final moments of his earthly life, hours when he might well have wished that others could have been sustaining him.As the sacred supper of that ultimate Passover was being prepared, Jesus was under the strain of deep and profound emotion. Only he knew what lay immediately ahead, but perhaps even he did not fully anticipate the depth of pain to which he must go before it could be said, “The Son of Man hath descended below them all.” In the midst of this meal and such thoughts, Christ quietly arose, girded himself as a slave or servant would, and knelt to wash the Apostles’ feet. (See  This small circle of believers in this scarcely founded kingdom were about to pass through their severest trial, so he would set aside his own increasing anguish in order that he might yet once more serve and strengthen them. It does not matter that no one washed his feet. In transcendent humility he would continue to teach and to cleanse them. He would to the final hour—and beyond—be their sustaining servant. As John wrote, who was there and watched the wonder of it all, “Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.” So it had been, and so it was to be—through the night, and through the pain, and forever. He would  be their strength, and no anguish in his own soul would ever keep him from that sustaining role.In the moonlit silence of that Near Eastern night, every acute pain, every heartfelt grief, every crushing wrong and human hurt experienced by every man, woman, and child in the human family was to be heaped upon his weary shoulders. But in such a moment, when someone might have said it to him, he rather says to us, “Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.” “Ye shall be sorrowful,” he said—sad, lonely, frightened, and sometimes even persecuted, “ Be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.”  italics added.)How can he speak that way? Of good cheer and joy? On a night like this? With the pain he knew was just ahead? But those are the blessings he always brought, and that is how he always spoke—to the very end.We cannot know to what extent his disciples fully understood the approaching events, but we do know that Christ faced his final moments alone. In one of the truly candid comments he would make to his brethren, he said, “My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.”  And he left them to do what only he could do. The Light of the World stepped away from human company and entered the garden grove to wrestle with the prince of darkness alone. Moving forward, kneeling, falling forward on his face, he cried with an anguish you and I will never know, “O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me.”  But he knew, for our sakes, that it could not pass and that he must drink that bitter cup to the dregs!His disciples, understandably, were weary and soon fell asleep. What of Christ’s sleep? What of his fatigue? What rest or slumber will sustain him through such an agonizing ordeal? That is simply not his concern here, nor does it ever seem to be. He will endure. He will triumph. He will not falter nor fail us.Even in crucifixion he would reign with the benevolence and bearing of a King. Of those who rend his flesh and spill his blood he says, “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.”  And to the penitent thief at his side he gently promises paradise. To his beloved mother he is unable to make any caring gesture with his hands. So he simply looks at her and says, “Woman, behold thy son!” Then commending to John her future care, he declares, “Behold thy mother!”  He would be concerned for others—but especially for her—to the very end.Because he must ultimately tread this winepress of redemption unaided, can he endure the darkest moment of them all, the shock of the greatest pain? This comes not with thorns and with nails, but with the terror of feeling utterly alone: “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? … My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?”  Can he bear all of our sins  our fear and loneliness too? He did and he does and he will.We do not know how such great sorrow can be borne, but it is no wonder the sun hid its face in shame. No wonder the veil of the temple was rent. No wonder the very earth convulsed at the plight of this perfect child. And at least one Roman centurion who saw all of this sensed something of what it had meant. In awe, he uttered the declaration for all eternity, “Truly this was the Son of God.” Life has its share of some fear and some failure. Sometimes things fall short, don’t quite measure up. Sometimes in both personal and public life, we are seemingly left without strength to go on. Sometimes people fail us, or economies and circumstance fail us, and life with its hardship and heartache can leave us feeling very alone.But when such difficult moments come to us, I testify that there is one thing which will never, ever fail us. One thing alone will stand the test of all time, of all tribulation, all trouble, and all transgression. One thing only never faileth—and that is the pure love of Christ.“I remember,” Moroni cries to the Savior of the world, “that thou hast said that thou hast loved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the world. …“Now I know,” he writes, “that this love which thou hast had for the children of men is charity.” Having watched a dispensation die and an entire civilization destroy itself, Moroni quotes his father for any who will listen in some later (“latter”) day, “If ye have not charity, ye are nothing.”  Only the pure love of Christ will see us through. It is Christ’s love which suffereth long, and is kind. It is Christ’s love which is not puffed up nor easily provoked. Only his pure love enables him—and us—to bear all things, believe all things, hope all things, and endure all things. (See I testify that having loved us who are in the world, Christ loves us to the end. His pure love never fails us. Not now. Not ever. Not ever.Of that divine sustaining vote for all of us I testify in this, his true and living Church, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brothers and sisters, since this is my first opportunity to address you since the call to this new assignment, I want you to know how grateful I am for the privilege of serving the Lord and dedicating my life to the building of the kingdom.There is no single word that better characterizes the life and mission of the Savior than the wordThe Savior’s mission was begun out of love which the Father had for His children. In John we read, “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.” Thus, the greatest mission in the history of the world was ordained and begun because of the love of our kind and caring Eternal Father.You will recall that the Pharisees, in their effort to ensnare the Master, had the lawyer put the question to him: “Master, which is the great commandment in the law?” (I wish it had been someone other than a lawyer who had asked that question, but there is some comfort in the fact that the Pharisees put him up to it.)You will remember the response:“Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.“This is the first and great commandment.“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” Elder James E. Talmage has commented that these two commandments “are so closely related as to be virtually one: … ‘Thou shalt love.’ He who abideth one of the two will abide both; for without love for our fellows, it is impossible to please God.” ( 12th ed., Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1968, p. 431.)As we approach what seem like insurmountable problems facing mankind today, there has never been a greater need for love in the world—not only of God, but love of all mankind.As a church, we are fortunate to be able to show love and render service in an organized way.Our missionary program is an expression of love for our neighbors as we share the message of the gospel. It is out of love and concern for others that our missionaries spend up to two years, largely at their own expense, living in all parts of the world. Many experience hardship, deprivations, and danger as they share the blessings of the gospel.Our tithes and offerings, when given with the right spirit, are an expression of love and concern that we have for the Lord’s work and for those in need of material assistance.The brotherhood and warmth of our priesthood quorums, Relief Society, and youth organizations are available to all who will “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him.” Countless thousands of hours are spent in meaningful Christian service by bishops, stake presidents, Relief Society presidents, home teachers, nursery leaders, and all who have accepted callings to do their part. They render this service not just out of a sense of duty, but out of genuine love for those they serve.But for all of the good that is being accomplished, much remains to be done. Perhaps the greatest opportunity for improvement is in our individual relationships with one another.As the Savior was closing His ministry in preparation for the sacrifice that was to be the greatest of all gifts of love, He gave the powerful admonition, “Love one another; as I have loved you.” May I offer four suggestions to help focus on principles that will make us kinder, gentler, more harmonious, and loving persons.First, be considerate. Be sensitive to the thoughts and feelings of others, always careful not to demean or belittle by either word or act. Be encouraging, uplifting, careful not to break down a person’s confidence. It was my experience even in the legal profession—combative as it can sometimes be—that there was still much room to show consideration and respect.Second, be complimentary. Look for attributes and acts of others that you can be genuinely complimentary of. Everyone is lifted by sincere and deserved commendation. Third, be charitable. The prophet Moroni counsels us with respect to the need for charity: “For if he have not charity he is nothing.”  In his epistle to the Corinthians, the Apostle Paul sums up the importance of charity in that familiar verse: “Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.” What does it mean to be charitable? Charity is the opposite of selfishness. It means being generous and giving of both one’s means and one’s time in the service of others.We should have an element of sacrifice in our offerings and in the consecration of our time. We should strive to lift those within our reach who are forlorn or who despair. We should take a special interest in the youth around us.“Charity is the pure love of Christ.” Fourth, be grateful. If we would show our love to our Heavenly Father, we would be grateful. We would show our gratitude by the way we live, not just by what we say or profess.It has been said that the sin of ingratitude is more serious than the sin of revenge. With revenge, we return evil for evil, but with ingratitude, we return evil for good.Years ago, when it was the practice to hold baccalaureate services at graduation time, President Harold B. Lee related a story to a group of college graduates that has always stayed with me.He told of a woman who was widowed early in life and left with several children to support and care for. Money was scarce. The children had to work hard to supplement the meager amounts that the mother was able to earn doing washings and cleaning houses.But as the children took top academic honors and went on to notable achievements in the community and business world, the family attracted the attention of the local newspaper. A reporter was sent to the home to interview this remarkable mother who, by now, was somewhat stooped and gray.Several questions were asked by the reporter in an attempt to learn the secret of her success. She had accomplished so much with so little.The reporter asked his final question: “With such a wonderful family of children, which one did you love the most?” With a tear softly moistening her eye she replied:“I loved most the one who was sick until she was better.“I loved most the one who was away until he returned.“I loved most the one who was failing until he succeeded.“I loved most the one who was sad until she was happy.”In closing, may I quote from Solomon Bennett Freehof:“Years ago I preferred clever people. There was a joy in beholding … a mind … bearing thoughts quickly translated into words, or ideas expressed in a new way. I find now my taste has changed. Verbal fireworks often bore me. They seem motivated by self-assertion and self-display. I now prefer another type of person; one who is considerate, understanding of others, careful not to break down another person’s self-respect. … My preferred person today is one who is always aware of the needs of others, or their pain and [their] fear and [their] unhappiness, and their search for self-respect. … I once liked clever people. Now I like good people.” (Richard L. Evans,  Salt Lake City: Publishers Press, 1971, p. 166.)May we all strive more diligently to show our love of the Lord by the way we emulate Christlike love in our relationships with others, that we may lay claim to the “crown of life” referred to by James, “which the Lord hath promised to them that love him”  I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.