This has been another wonderful conference, brothers and sisters. I am sure we all appreciate the inspired and timely messages we have heard. They have been translated simultaneously into twenty-nine languages, many of which have been broadcast via satellite and television to millions of people.The wonder of television causes me to believe that Philo T. Farnsworth, back in 1927, must surely have been inspired of the Lord to develop this remarkable medium of communication. As you know, Brother Farnsworth was a member of the Church. Applying his scientific skills, he brought to the world this marvelous invention, which I believe is to be used for the primary purpose of furthering the work of the Lord.In the past sixty years, television has become a major industry in the world. It is estimated that more than 750 million television sets are owned by people living in 160 countries. Approximately 2.5 billion people view television broadcasting every day.Most of us recognize both the many benefits and the many challenges that come from television in our modern, fast-paced world. Some of the benefits, besides listening to the teaching of the gospel, we can receive by merely touching a button include receiving instant reports of local and world events and updates on weather; watching fantasy; exploring geography; living history; enjoying good theater, dance, and music; and experiencing culture from almost every country in the world.For these kinds of programs we praise the industry. Unfortunately, however, far too much programming is not wholesome and uplifting but is violent, degrading, and destructive to moral values. This kind of television offends the Spirit of the Lord; therefore, I express a word of warning and caution about such programming.Good families face very significant challenges in controlling the use of television and videotapes in their homes. I agree with Dr. Victor B. Cline when he said, “I am convinced by a vast amount of research that the images, fantasies, and models which we are repeatedly exposed to in advertisements, entertainment, novels, motion pictures, and other works of art can and do … affect the self-image and, later, the behavior of nearly all young people and adults too.” (Address at Tidewater Assembly on Family Life, Norfolk, Virginia.)On another occasion, Dr. Cline said that the mental diet is as important as the nutritional diet. “The amount of violence a child sees at 7 predicts how violent he will be at 17, 27, and 37. … Children’s minds are like banks—whatever you put in, you get back 10 years later with interest.” He said that violent television teaches children, step-by-step, “how to commit violent acts, and it desensitizes them to the horror of such behavior and to the feelings of victims.” Dr. Cline said that America is suffering from “an explosion of interpersonal violence like we have never seen before. … The violence is because of violence in our entertainment.” (See “Therapist says children who view TV violence tend to become violent,”  24 Mar. 1989, p. 2B.)Some may be surprised to know that in the average American home, the television set is on just under seven hours each day, and more than sixty-six million Americans who are under age nineteen live in these homes. A recent magazine article included this statement: “Once, television’s ‘window on the world’ mirrored solid  heroes drawn in bright primary colors, and a society of permanence and belonging. Now, … it’s clear that our TV shows are showing quite a different picture. In fact, it’s arguable that television is no longer a mere window on our world but the ” ( Triangle Publications, n.d., p. 3.)Allow me to share highlights of some alarming findings from research studies conducted over the past eight to ten years on the effects of television when watched more than two hours a day  the careful selection of programs.Volumes of research data show the detrimental effects of television, but I just say that television and videocassette viewing by youngsters has a significant impact on their behavior. We must not take lightly the confession of a recently executed killer on the impact pornography and violence in media had on his life. The Apostle Paul warned that men can become “past feeling … [giving] themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.”  In Proverbs we read, “As [a man] thinketh … , so is he.”  A mind exposed to violence and immorality cannot escape the negative impact of such exposure.President Gordon B. Hinckley said:“‘A survey of influential television writers and executives in Hollywood has shown that they are far less religious than the general public. … While nearly all of the 104 Hollywood professionals interviewed had a religious background, 45 percent now say they have no religion, and of the other 55 percent only 7 percent say they attend a religious service as much as once a month.“‘This group has had a major role in shaping the shows whose themes and stars have become staples in our popular culture’ ( 19 Feb. 1983, part 2, page 5).“These are the people [TV script writers and executives] who, through the medium of entertainment, are educating us in the direction of their own standards, which in many cases are diametrically opposed to the standards of the gospel.” ( Nov. 1983, pp. 45–46.)A  magazine article states:“This upsurge in openness has been linked by some critics to cutbacks in the network departments of standards and practices—the censors who review shows and commercials for offensive … material. … The ranks of these watchdogs were drastically reduced: from a peak of 75 to 80 per network during the 1970s to 35 to 40 today at ABC and fewer than 30 each at CBS and NBC.” (“Where Are the Censors?” 12 Dec. 1988, p. 95.) Televised violence has become so pervasive that the average high school student by graduation has seen eighteen thousand murders and many other acts of violence and sin. This being the case today, more parental review and monitoring is needed to protect our families from the current flood of TV violence and the effect it has on us.Randal A. Wright in his book  wrote:“It is possible to trace the decline in American television from its original programs. As an example, a prime-time (7:00 to 10:00 ) schedule check going back thirty years found that in 1955, no violent, crime-oriented programs were offered. … By 1986, twenty-nine hours of violent programs were being offered.” (Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1988, pp. 45–46.)I believe that the number of violent programs has increased substantially since 1986.Mr. Wright continued: “Not only is violence increasing on TV, but every form of immorality, vice, and corruption is also being paraded before our family’s eyes in ever-increasing amounts. Ask yourself if the same kinds of sexually related scenes and messages of all too many programs of today were found in the programs of twenty years ago. We are being exposed to growing amounts of inappropriate material if we choose to watch TV without being selective.” (Ibid., p. 46.)In the Church, we often state the couplet: “Be in the world but not of the world.” As we observe television shows that make profanity, violence, and infidelity commonplace and even glamorous, we often wish we could lock out the world in some way and isolate our families from it all.Perhaps the proper response to outrageous behavior is outrage, or, more to the point, the proper response to outrageous television is outrage. I express my own and this Church’s disappointment, disagreement, and even outrage with television that turns our attention and sometimes our inclinations toward violence, self-serving greed, profanity, disrespect for traditional values, sexual promiscuity, and deviance.Nephi predicted that in our day Satan would “rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good.”  Satan’s evil use of television contributes to the increased wickedness in our society.Perhaps we should state the couplet previously mentioned as two separate admonitions. First,  Be involved; be informed. Try to be understanding and tolerant and to appreciate diversity. Make meaningful contributions to society through service and involvement. Second,  Do not follow wrong paths or bend to accommodate or accept what is not right.We should strive to change the corrupt and immoral tendencies in television and in society by keeping things that offend and debase  of our homes. In spite of all of the wickedness in the world, and in spite of all the opposition to good that we find on every hand, we should  try to take ourselves or our children  of the world. Jesus said, “The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven,” or yeast.  We are to lift the world and help all to rise above the wickedness that surrounds us. The Savior prayed to the Father:“I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil.” Members of the Church need to influence more than we are influenced. We should work to stem the tide of sin and evil instead of passively being swept along by it. We each need to help solve the problem rather than avoid or ignore it.I like this simple little poem:We can live in the world, brothers and sisters, without letting the world into us. We have the gospel message that can carry men and women buoyantly through the “mist of darkness”  to the source of all light. We can raise children who have been taught to discern and to make personal righteous decisions.The Lord does not need a society that hides and isolates itself from the world. Rather, he needs stalwart individuals and families who live exemplary lives  the world and demonstrate that joy and fulfillment come not of the world but through the spirit and the doctrine of Jesus Christ.Now, what can we as individuals and families do to reverse the negative trends of television? Let me review with you some suggestions.Brothers and sisters, we can write to local radio and television stations and to cable and national networks to express our concerns. The sponsors and advertisers who pay for programs and advertising that are offensive would most likely appreciate hearing from us also.In my opinion, we must make our influence felt by joining with other concerned people who oppose television programming that tears down and destroys the  that have made our families and our countries strong. Latter-day Saints are not alone in this concern. Many individuals, churches, and other organizations are raising their voices. Let us join with them, brothers and sisters, to persuade TV script writers, executives, and sponsors to use their talents and resources to help build a better and safer world.President George Bush, in his inaugural address, called for a kinder face of the nation and a gentler face of the world. (See  23 Jan. 1989, p. 11.) Let it begin by a kinder and gentler television throughout the world.The prophet Mormon said that each of us is given the Spirit of Christ to know good from evil; everything that invites us to do good is of God. On the other hand, anything that persuades us to do evil is of the devil, for he and those who follow him persuade no one to do good. (See  This simple test will guide us in judging television and other media programs.May the Lord bless us and help us protect ourselves, our families, and the spirit of our homes, and help us improve our world through working for improved television programming.I leave you my testimony that we have only one sure way to secure our homes and our families, and that is through learning and living the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. May the Lord bless you and help you prevent anything of an evil nature from entering your homes, I pray humbly, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.In October of 1833, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation in which the Lord said, “I will raise up unto myself a pure people, that will serve me in righteousness.”  The Lord was speaking of our pioneer forefathers, and also of the Saints of this day. In view of that implied responsibility, I would like to discuss with you today the way to perfection, which not only applies to this life but to the next one as well.A fortnight ago I received an interesting letter from a member of the Church who grew up in a country located high in the Himalaya Mountains of southern Asia. He wrote: “I was brought up in a royal, aristocratic, Hindu priest family. I was taught to work but not to hope for a reward. I thought, Why should I work if there is no reward? Am I following the right way? I was offended with polytheistic and pantheistic philosophy. I wanted to know the  truth and the [] way.” He told how he had found the truth and the only right way through the Mormon missionaries in Seoul, Korea. He bore a powerful testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ that brought tears to my eyes.I was intrigued by his statement concerning the need for a reward. The Lord has promised us resurrection and immortality, but these are not a reward. According to Webster’s dictionary, a reward is “something that is given for some service or attainment.”Resurrection is the reuniting of the body and the spirit. As Jesus was resurrected, eventually every person who was ever born into this world will be resurrected, whether he wants to be or not. When a person is resurrected, he receives immortality, which is to live forever in the resurrected state. Likewise, every person who was ever born into this world will receive immortality regardless of his or her behavior in this life. Thus,  and  are synonymous. They are not a reward—they are a gift—for we have rendered no service nor attained any accomplishment to warrant these as a reward. The gift is from the Savior; it comes through His atoning sacrifice.The scriptures teach us that there  promise beyond—that there  a reward for service rendered and for attainment. The reward is exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God. Exaltation is the highest of three degrees of glory in the celestial kingdom. The celestial kingdom is the highest of three kingdoms in the realm of immortality. Exaltation is earned by accepting Jesus Christ and His divine sonship and following His precepts.Jesus showed us the way. Its simplicity is encompassed in His Beatitudes, which have echoed down through the centuries of time and will yet echo through the millenniums of time: “Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”  In repeating the Sermon on the Mount to the people in ancient America, He said it differently: “Blessed are the poor in spirit  for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.”  italics added.) This addition, “who come unto me,” enables one to better understand the meaning of this verse. The Lord said he is angered with the inhabitants of the earth, for “they seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own god.”  The Beatitudes are steps we can take to come to Christ. To come unto Christ, one’s first step is to come forth with a broken heart and a contrite spirit that results in overcoming unrighteous pride and becoming submissive to His will. “Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.”  The Apostle Paul spoke of a godly sorrow for our sins that is essential to our spiritual progress. “Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.”  The dictionary defines  as “enduring injury with patience and without resentment.” This is an important virtue that one must develop in preparation for entrance into the celestial kingdom, which kingdom the earth will become when it is celestialized. “Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.”  The scripture from ancient America adds, “shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.” A young man approached Socrates and asked him to be his tutor and to teach him what he knew. Socrates took the young man to the seaside and out into the water. Then he pushed his head under the water for almost too long. The young man struggled, came up gasping for air, and demanded the meaning of such an unwarranted action. The great Socrates responded, “When you want to learn as badly as you want a breath of air, only then can I teach you what you want to know.” To understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, one must first have a strong desire to learn and a willingness to study. “Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.”  Webster’s dictionary defines  as “compassion or forbearance shown to an offender.” Such is the by-product of gospel living. When one extends mercy to others, he develops purity of heart. The Savior said, “Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.”  The dictionary has twenty-two different definitions for the word  one of which is “to understand.” When one develops purity of heart, he will come to understand God. As one develops an understanding of God, he comes to know Him. The Savior said, addressing the Father, “And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”  Once one has gained purity of heart, he receives peace in his mind and peace in his heart. The Savior continued, “Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.”  Having gained inner peace, we have put on the full armor of God. Now we can more easily withstand persecution, which leads to— “Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.“Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.“Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.” The Savior concluded His sermon by encouraging us to become perfect, as our Heavenly Father is perfect. While these steps follow one another in a natural sequence, we should always be striving to perfect ourselves in each of these virtues. We should always help others as they strive to improve. Disparagement of others should not exist within our ranks, for each of us is struggling to move forward. A helping hand should be extended to lift one another over the shoals along the rocky shore near which our ship must sail.In our state of imperfection, sin often occurs. The Lord has told us that if we truly repent, He will forgive us. Repentance involves recognition of our imperfections, remorse for having strayed, restitution where appropriate, and resolve that the transgression will never be repeated.It is important that we partake of the sacrament regularly. When we do so, in sincere repentance, our baptismal covenants are renewed, the Lord forgives us, and we start anew. It is truly a marvelous and a merciful process, one which enables us to grow and progress.When we partake of the sacrament, we witness unto God that we are willing to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ. (See  What does that mean?The Savior said to Peter, “Come follow me.” (See   Peter walked in His footsteps for three years. He went where Jesus went. He did what Jesus instructed him to do. Then the Savior said to Peter and to His other Apostles also:“In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.“And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.” And where did Jesus go? He went to His Father. But before He went to His Father, He went someplace else. He went to Gethsemane. We are not required to go through His trials, but we are required to be  to go through them. To prove that we are willing to do so, we must go through our own trials and remain faithful.The Lord said, “My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom.” At the conclusion of the Sermon on the Mount in the Holy Land, the Savior said, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect.”  But when the Savior repeated the Sermon on the Mount to the people of ancient America, He said, “Therefore I would that ye should be perfect  or your Father who is in heaven is perfect.”  italics added.)Something important occurred between the time He taught this sermon to the people in the Holy Land and when He taught it to the people of ancient America. In the meantime, He went through His Gethsemane, where He drank the bitter cup and did not shrink. We too should strive for perfection, bear up under our problems and our sorrows, remain faithful to the end, and not shrink.My friend from the Himalayas will have his trials and tribulations as he returns to his homeland to share this important message with his people: that Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and our Savior and our Exemplar who will direct them along the right path that leads to exaltation; that there  a reward, but it  and that the reward is glorious beyond description. He tasted of that reward when he asked the Lord, “Is it true?” and the Holy Spirit bore witness to him that truly it is.I testify that this restored gospel which we espouse is indeed the real truth and the  way to a glorious and eternal reward. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.