“Happiness,” in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, “is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it.” ( 5:134.) Often that path includes affliction, trials, and suffering—physically, mentally, and even spiritually.Adversity, or what we perceive to be adversity, enters into the life of every individual at various times and in various forms. Adversity may be the consequence of willful disobedience to the laws of God. However, my remarks are directed to those who with righteous desire seek earnestly to learn and strive diligently to do God’s will, yet nevertheless experience adversity. Much about this subject we do not understand, but let us consider some of what the Lord has revealed.Adversity in the lives of the obedient and faithful may be the consequence of disease, accidental injury, ignorance, or the influence of the adversary. To preserve free agency, the Lord also at times permits the righteous to suffer the consequences of evil acts by others. (See Some may respond to such innocent suffering with resentment, anger, bitterness, doubt, or fear. (See  Others, with a knowledge and testimony of the divine plan of salvation, often respond with faith, patience, and hope born of that “peace … which passeth all understanding.” The plan of salvation presented to and accepted by us in our premortal state includes a probationary period on earth, during which we experience opposites, make choices, learn the consequences thereof, and prepare to return to the presence of God. Experiencing adversity is an essential part of the process. Knowing this, we elected to come into mortality. (See The Savior himself “learned … obedience by the things which he suffered.”  Prophets and Apostles, ancient and modern, have struggled with adversity in their own lives, as well as with trials associated with their divine callings. No one is exempt.However, Paul teaches “that all things work together for good to them that love God.”  Similarly, the prophet Lehi assured his son Jacob with these words: “Jacob, … in thy childhood thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow because of [others].“Nevertheless, … thou knowest the greatness of God; and he shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain.” How, then, shall we respond to undeserved adversity in our own lives? How may our responses to affliction and suffering draw us closer to the Savior, to our Heavenly Father, and to the realization of our own celestial potential? May I suggest some examples and role models found in the scriptures.The sons of Mosiah, in the course of their missionary labors, “had many afflictions … both in body and in mind … and also much labor in the spirit.”  Partly because of such experiences, they became “strong in the knowledge of the truth; … men of a sound understanding … [who] searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. …“They had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation.”  Through their positive response to adversity, they grew spiritually.In the time of Nephi, son of Helaman, “the more humble part of the people … [suffered] much affliction”; but they fasted and prayed frequently and became “stronger in their humility, and … firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation.” From their example, we learn some positive responses to our own undeserved adversity.As they did, we should look to the Savior for divine assistance. Paul reminds us that “we have a great high priest, … Jesus the Son of God, … [who is] touched with the feeling of our infirmities.” We are invited to seek his “help in time of need.” Because the Savior suffered “pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind … [taking] upon him the pains and the sickness of his people … [taking] upon him their infirmities … [he knows] according to the flesh how to [help] his people according to their infirmities.”  Therefore, we should follow the counsel of Amulek: “Let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of those who are around you.” Next, our prayers should be accompanied with daily scripture study. The eternal perspective attained thereby reminds us of who we are, what the true purpose of this mortal experience is, and who placed us here. The availability of divine help is repeatedly reconfirmed. Daily scripture study also makes us continuously conscious of covenants we have made with the Lord and of his promised blessings.As we fulfill our baptismal covenant, we “bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light,” and our own burdens are lightened. We “comfort those that stand in need of comfort,” and we receive comfort. When we “stand as witnesses of God … in all things,” we feel his redeeming love and see our present circumstances more clearly in the perspective of eternal life.  In a sense, we are thereby accepting the Savior’s invitation: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”  Is it not probable that bearing his yoke and his burden includes forgetting self in service to others?Patience must also be part of our response to adversity. Ammon, son of Mosiah, recalling personal challenges, acknowledged, “Now when our hearts were depressed, and we were about to turn back [or, in other words, give up], … the Lord comforted us, and said: … bear with patience thine afflictions, and I will give unto you success.” In our day, the Lord has counseled, “Fear not, let your hearts be comforted; … rejoice evermore, and in everything give thanks;“Waiting patiently on the Lord. …“And all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good.” Repeated assurances have been given regarding the benefits and blessings of positive responses to adversity, however undeserved. The witness of the Spirit and the manifestation of greater things often follow the trial of one’s faith. (See   Spiritual refinement may be realized in the furnace of affliction.  Thereby we may be prepared to experience personal and direct contact with God.In modern revelation we are instructed, “Sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will.”  Ancient prophets teach us that “when he shall appear, … we shall see him as he is; … [and] be purified even as he is pure.”  see also The Lord’s own way of preparing us to see him as he is may well include the refining furnace of affliction, that we may “offer a sacrifice [to him] … of a broken heart and a contrite spirit,” the promised reward being “peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come.” Each of us is the spiritual offspring of God. We came to this earth to prepare to return to his presence, there to share a fulness—that is, eternal life. Without adversity, we may tend to forget the divine purpose of mortality and live our lives focused on the transitory things of the world.Should we therefore desire or seek to experience adversity and suffering? No! May we appropriately try to avoid it? Yes! Is it proper to ask for relief? Yes, always adding, in accordance with the Savior’s example, “nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.” There are encouragement and comfort in knowing that we will not be tested beyond our capacity to endure, that we will benefit from our adversities, and that the resources and circumstances necessary for us to do so will be provided. (See  From the Book of Mormon comes another illustration:Those with whom Alma shared the inspired teachings of Abinadi entered into the baptismal covenant and began to live the gospel fully. There was no contention among them; they were knit together in unity and in love one toward another, caring for the poor and needy and for one another temporally and spiritually. Because of their industry and the harmony among them, they prospered. (See  Certainly they did not deserve adversity. However, they were provided with the opportunity for further spiritual growth.The scriptural account continues with these words: “Nevertheless, the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith.”  Notwithstanding their righteousness, these faithful people suffered much affliction. Understandably, they pleaded with the Lord for relief, perhaps hoping that the burdens would be removed. In response to their pleadings, the Lord comforted them and assured them of his help.  Then he strengthened them “that they could bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord.”  Eventually, because of their faith and patience, they were delivered from their afflictions. Having been further refined spiritually, and with increased faith, “they gave thanks to God.” In the final days of the Nephite civilization, the prophet Mormon wrote a letter to his son, Moroni, describing the wickedness, cruelty, and depravity which caused innocent people to suffer. Then he added these words of admonition and comfort:“My son, be faithful in Christ; and may not the things which I have written grieve thee, to weigh thee down … ; but may Christ lift thee up, and may his sufferings and death, … his mercy … and the hope of his glory and of eternal life, rest in your mind forever.“And may the grace of God the Father … and our Lord Jesus Christ … be, and abide with you forever”  which is also my prayer for each of us, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.Over the past number of weeks I have had some conversations that have made me ponder the meaning of the word  As I recently talked to a young twenty-year-old man, I discussed his attitude about going on a mission. He said, “I wanted to go, but I am not worthy.”“Who made that judgment?” I asked.“I did,” was his answer.On another occasion I asked a young lady who was contemplating marriage if she was going to the temple. She said, “I would like to, but I am not worthy.” In response to the same question of who determined her unworthiness, she too said, “I did.”A member mother who had known for many weeks that her daughter had planned a temple marriage was asked if she was going to attend the temple ceremony. “No. I am not worthy to get a temple recommend,” she answered.Each of these people seemed to have made his own determination about worthiness. We do not have to be hindered by self-judgment. All of us have the benefit and added wisdom of a bishop and a stake president to help us determine our worthiness and, if necessary, to assist us to begin the process of becoming worthy to accomplish whatever goal we wish to achieve. When we take it upon ourselves to pass self-judgment and simply declare, “I am not worthy,” we build a barrier to progress and erect blockades that prevent our moving forward. We are not being fair when we judge ourselves. A second and third opinion will always be helpful and proper.It occurs to me that there are probably hundreds or even thousands who do not understand what worthiness is. Worthiness is a process, and perfection is an eternal trek. We can be worthy to enjoy certain privileges without being perfect.Perhaps it is reasonable to conclude that personal measurement or judgment oftentimes may be severe and inaccurate. We may get bogged down as we try to understand and define  All of us are particularly aware of our shortcomings and weaknesses. Therefore, it is easy for us to feel that we are unworthy of blessings we desire and that we are not as worthy to hold an office or calling as someone next door.All through life we meet some people who tell of their weaknesses with great enthusiasm and unreasonable prejudice. They may not report untruths, but they may leave out truths or they may not be fair with themselves. Misjudgments can be made. To move forward wisely and think clearly, all sides of the story must be reviewed. When we feel inadequate, capable and loving friends can help us realize our strengths and potential.When counseling I have always tried to get the facts. Oftentimes those being interviewed resist sharing some of the facts because they make them uncomfortable. Worthy and lasting changes can only be made when actions are based upon the light of truth. Very often, people become comfortable in their self-declared unworthiness status.Possibly the hardest guidelines for us to follow are those we set for ourselves. To analyze our fears, our dreams, our goals, our motives can be soul-wrenching. We need others to help us. We may find that we fear failure so much that we won’t take a risk. Often our self-esteem is bruised by criticism. Many other facts about ourselves can be brought to light if we really want to know.Perhaps we all live under some misconceptions when we look at each other on Sundays as we attend our meetings. Everyone is neatly dressed and greets each other with a smile. It is natural to assume that everyone else has his life under control and doesn’t have to deal with dark little weaknesses and imperfections.There is a natural, probably a mortal, tendency to compare ourselves with others. Unfortunately, when we make these comparisons, we tend to compare our weakest attributes with someone else’s strongest. For example, a woman who feels unschooled in the gospel may take particular note of a woman in her ward who teaches the Gospel Doctrine class and seems to have every scripture at her fingertips. Obviously these kinds of comparisons are destructive and only reinforce the fear that somehow we don’t measure up and therefore we must not be as worthy as the next person.We need to come to terms with our desire to reach perfection and our frustration when our accomplishments or behaviors are less than perfect. I feel that one of the great myths we would do well to dispel is that we’ve come to earth to perfect ourselves, and nothing short of that will do. If I understand the teachings of the prophets of this dispensation correctly, we will not become perfect in this life, though we can make significant strides toward that goal.Elder Joseph Fielding Smith offers this counsel:“Salvation does not come all at once; we are commanded to be perfect even as our Father in heaven is perfect. It will take us ages to accomplish this end, for there will be greater progress beyond the grave, and it will be there that the faithful will overcome all things, and receive all things, even the fulness of the Father’s glory.“I believe the Lord meant just what he said: that we should be perfect, as our Father in heaven is perfect. That will not come all at once, but line upon line, and precept upon precept, example upon example, and even then not as long as we live in this mortal life, for we will have to go even beyond the grave before we reach that perfection and shall be like God.” ( comp. Bruce R. McConkie, 3 vols., Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954–56, 2:18–19.)I am also convinced of the fact that the speed with which we head along the straight and narrow path isn’t as important as the direction in which we are traveling. That direction, if it is leading toward eternal goals, is the all-important factor.Another quotation, which comes from President George Q. Cannon, is very meaningful to me:“Now, this is the truth. We humble people, we who feel ourselves sometimes so worthless, so good-for-nothing, we are not so worthless as we think. There is not one of us but what God’s love has been expended upon. There is not one of us that He has not cared for and caressed. There is not one of us that He has not desired to save and that He has not devised means to save. There is not one of us that He has not given His angels charge concerning. We may be insignificant and contemptible in our own eyes and in the eyes of others, but the truth remains that we are children of God and that He has actually given His angels … charge concerning us, and they watch over us and have us in their keeping.” ( comp. Jerreld L. Newquist, 2 vols., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1974, 1:2.)If we are in the keeping of angels, God is certainly telling us that we are worthy to be watched over, helped, and directed by him. As we become aware of God’s watch-care and as we turn to Church leaders to help us learn how to become worthy members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we learn that we can reach the status of worthiness for each goal along life’s path. Yet we must strive for worthiness.In Official Declaration—2  accepted by the Church on September 30, 1978, we are reminded that certain privileges have worthiness as a prerequisite. In this official declaration, the word  or  is used six times. This leaves little doubt as to the importance of being worthy if specific blessings are to be available to us.As we said in the beginning, it is a wonderful strength and a needful process to be able to go to a bishop or a stake president and discuss our worthiness. During such interviews it may be determined how worthiness can be achieved if there is need for improvement.President N. Eldon Tanner gave us some wise counsel:“With all this evil present in the world today, it is most important that those who are responsible conduct proper interviews.“Let us always remember that our main purpose, assignment, and responsibility is to save souls.“It is important that those we interview realize that they are  and that  and  and are interested in their welfare and in helping them succeed in life.“It is a great responsibility for a bishop or stake president to conduct a worthiness interview. There is equal responsibility, however, upon the member who is interviewed. Careful, searching interviews need to be conducted always individually and privately. …“Let [the member] know that if there is something amiss in his life, there are ways to straighten it out. There is a great cleansing power of repentance. …“You bishops and stake presidents might approach an interview for a temple recommend something like this:“‘You have come to me for a recommend to enter the temple. I have the responsibility of representing the Lord in interviewing you. At the conclusion of the interview there is provision for me to sign your recommend; but mine is not the only important signature on your recommend. Before the recommend is valid, you must sign it yourself.’ …“And so it is. The Lord gives the privilege to members of the Church to respond to those questions in such interviews. Then if there is something amiss, the member can get his life in order so that he may qualify for the priesthood advancement, for a mission, or for a temple recommend.” ( Nov. 1978, pp. 41–42.)As we strive for worthiness, a scripture we should not lose sight of is Doctrine and Covenants, section 136, verse 31: “He that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of [the Lord’s] kingdom.”  Sometimes there is a great need for us to be chastised, disciplined, and corrected in a spirit of love, help, and hope. Guidance and suggestions should be offered in a loving way, but most of us have a tendency to rebel or be dismayed when someone suggests that our conduct is less than it should be. As Benjamin Franklin once said: “Those things that hurt, instruct. It is for this reason that wise people learn not to dread but welcome problems.”In life there are requirements for almost all privileges—education demands them, business has its regulations, sports and games have their rules, the Church has certain standards, and so on. But in every case there is help to meet those requirements. It is up to us to look for that assistance so we can understand the rules and strengthen ourselves as we receive direction from the sources available. It is not wise or proper for us to judge ourselves as being unworthy and thus stop our progress.When we dwell on our own weaknesses, it is easy to dwell on the feelings that we are unworthy. Somehow we need to bridge the gap between continually striving to improve and yet not feeling defeated when our actions aren’t perfect all the time. We need to remove  from our vocabulary and replace it with  and  This we can do if we turn to quieter, deeper, surer guidelines—the words of our prophets and leaders, past and present.Abraham Lincoln wisely said, “It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels worthy of himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him.” (In  comp. Rhoda Thomas Tripp, New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1970, p. 575.)To reinforce the importance of the word  and of worthy processes, I would like to share part of a poem by Elder Hugh B. Brown, “I Would Be Worthy.”It is my hope and prayer that we will learn individually and collectively the importance of the process of becoming worthy. We are entitled to the help of others not only in assessing our worthiness but also in making the classification of “worthy” available to each of us. As we measure our worthiness, let us no longer put limitations upon ourselves. Rather, let us use those strengths and powers that are available to make us worthy to gain great heights in personal development. Thus we will reap the joy that comes to those who desire to improve and move forward with determination and effectiveness as they practice self-discipline and refuse to judge themselves as unworthy.I leave my love, blessings, and testimony of these truths in the worthy name of Jesus Christ, amen.