My friend, Marcia, had moved several times in her young years as her father’s work required it. She was now ten years old and facing another new school. Marcia’s mother could see the concern on her daughter’s face and sat down with her to discuss what was bothering her.Marcia talked about the challenge of joining classes at midterm and trying to get in step with the subject matter, teacher, and other students. Mother pledged her support to help Marcia make the adjustment. Then tears welled up in Marcia’s eyes. In all honesty, she shared with her mother, “I can overcome the difficulties with the academics and the new teachers. But, Mother,” she said, with tears trickling over her freckled cheeks, “I just hate eating my lunch alone.”Marcia needed someone to recognize her situation and invite her to join a group and get acquainted. The Savior told us: “And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.” Kindness has many synonyms—love, service, charity. But I like the word because it implies action. It seems like something you and I can do. Kindness can be shown in so many ways. My favorite examples of kindness come from what Jesus did. He spent his ministry searching for the weary, the sick, the poor, and the lonely, that he might show kindness toward them.The book of Mark in the New Testament tells us of the Savior’s kind attention to a young girl. Her father was the ruler of the synagogue where Jesus was teaching. Word came to the ruler: “Thy daughter is dead.”  Jesus consoled the father: “Be not afraid, only believe.”  The Savior went hastily to the bedside of the girl and said, “Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.“And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.”  And beyond this great miracle, he continued to show his concern by instructing that something should be given to her to eat.Our beloved prophet has taught us about being kind. President Ezra Taft Benson tells us that a person who is kind is sympathetic and gentle with others, is considerate of others’ feelings, is courteous in his or her behavior, and has a helpful nature. He goes on to say, “Kindness pardons others’ weaknesses and faults. Kindness is extended to all—to the aged and the young, to animals, to those low of station as well as the high.” ( Nov. 1986, p. 47.)Now, you might ask, “What do the examples of Jesus and the words of the prophet mean in my life?” Jesus has shown us the pattern of God’s plan for us by his example. Our prophet, the head of the Church today, helps us learn how we can follow God’s plan and return to live with Jesus and Heavenly Father. I know it will be rare that any of us will witness such a miracle of kindness as I have shared from the scriptures. Seldom are we asked to sacrifice our safety or comfort as Jesus did when he was challenged by his enemies or when he was physically worn down. However, I truly believe we can, each in our own way, practice being kind within our own families, among our friends, in our schools, and in our communities.Recently, I spoke with Merrie Miss girls about kind people in their lives.Kate and Laura were best friends. The two of them also included others in their circle of friends. This group of girls planned a party, inviting all in the group except Kate. Laura, after becoming aware of what had happened, simply told the others that she would not be able to accept their invitation unless Kate was included. The kind, loyal act of a friend who followed God’s plan prevented pain and sorrow.We are made kind by being kind. Sophocles, a great philosopher, said, “Kindness is ever the begetter of kindness.” I remember some simple mottoes of kindness from my youth, such as “I will always try to do and say the kindest things in the kindest way.” A dear friend of mine shared a verse with me that has helped her to act kindly:No act of kindness is ever wasted. You cannot do a kindness too soon. Acting kindly can change the giver and the receiver for good.Derek was born with serious physical handicaps. In his five years on earth, he knew little of the world of those who run, play hide-and-seek, skip rope, or feel free of pain. But he knew how he could feel better. When things were tough, when he suffered and those around him were weary and discouraged, he would hold up his arms and ask, “Let me hold you?” In his innocence, he knew he could kindly lift others—even while he endured hardship.It is important to develop the attribute of kindness even if we feel we are too shy or too busy. For some, like young Derek, it requires little forethought; for others who have not developed the natural inclination to be kind, it demands a greater effort.The summers of my youth on the farm helped me appreciate and respect the world of insects and animals. I have always been fascinated by the industry of the honeybee. It is intent on its task to gather nectar. It looks for every opportunity to sink its tongue into the colorful and even not-so-colorful blossoms. It is not discouraged when it is not successful in finding nectar in a blossom, but seeks out its next opportunity with buzzing energy. While it is busy with the gathering of nectar, it in turn pollinates the blossoms to help them fulfill the measure of their creation. Finally, laden with success, it returns, and the nectar becomes the honey of the hive, nurturing not only itself, but the next generation of bees.Now, you and I both know that the honeybee gathers nectar purely by instinct. It just can’t help it! Nevertheless, it also goes about doing much good.We can learn from the honeybee. We can develop our own sort of “kindness instinct” by consciously seeking opportunities to act kindly. Wouldn’t it be a fine world if we had a natural instinct for kindness and just couldn’t help ourselves when we had the opportunity to be kind? We can nurture others with kindness, and our acts can become the sweet honey in this garden of life.There may be times when we excuse ourselves for unkindness because we are not feeling our best or our mood is not just right. It is easy to act kindly toward others when things are going well in our lives. But perhaps the real measure of our kindness comes if we can be so when we are tired, disappointed, or suffering because of an unkind deed done to us. Are we kind when all is well?Jesus Christ has left us a memorable pattern to follow at all times in our lives. None of us will experience anything equal to the physical pain and the mental anguish of Jesus on the cross. Yet at that moment of his great suffering, a thief hanging beside him “railed on him.”  Jesus did not respond to him. The second thief rebuked the first and pleaded with the Savior to speak to the Father in his behalf. Jesus put aside his own suffering to console the thief. “Today shalt thou be with me in paradise”  he told the thief. It would soon be over, and he would have relief. “‘Twas a thief said the last kind word to Christ: Christ took the kindness and forgave the theft.” (Robert Browning,  comp. John Bartlett, Boston: Little, Brown and Co., 1980, p. 545.)A touching example is the tender kindness Jesus showed his own Apostles. Close to the end of his earthly ministry, Jesus met with his Apostles, giving them the sacrament and final instructions. Jesus took a towel, poured water in a basin, and began to wash and dry the feet of the disciples. Peter, one of the disciples, said, “Thou shalt never wash my feet.”  Perhaps Peter resisted because he felt that Jesus should not stoop to perform an act of this nature. But Jesus insisted, washing the feet of all of the Apostles, even the feet of Judas, whom he knew would soon betray him. After the Savior had washed their feet, he said unto them, “Know ye what I have done to you?“Ye call me Master and Lord: …“If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another’s feet.“For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you. …“If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.” He gave a commandment with a promise.The Savior promises to give us kindness eternally and unconditionally. “For the mountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but my kindness shall not depart from thee.”  see also  “With everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy Redeemer.”  see also The Merrie Miss motto is I Will Follow God’s Plan for Me. God’s plan for us includes our being kind. My challenge to you is to search for opportunities to be kind. The promise is: you will be happy. I pray that each of us will develop a desire to be kind to ourselves and to others and to continually act upon it, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear sisters, it’s been heartwarming for me to receive so many good wishes from you during the past six months and to feel your acceptance. Many of you have told me that you’re praying for our presidency. We feel that spiritual strength and gratefully acknowledge it—both to you and to our Father in Heaven.I’ve looked forward to this opportunity to speak to you as your Relief Society president and share the thoughts that many of you have shared with me, both in person and in letter. Those thoughts echo a common theme: sisters compare themselves to others.For thirty years I have wanted to meet the woman against whom more Latter-day Saint women have compared themselves than any other woman in the Church. She’s often thought of as “Superwoman.” Some call her the typical Relief Society sister, the woman who makes fabulous bread, plays the organ like a professional, and dresses her impeccably groomed children in the clothes she’s made.Where is she? Who is she? What does she do that makes her seem beyond the reach of any woman? I’ve made a careful study, and I’ve found this woman. Tonight I’ll introduce you to our sister so we can see her as she is.The prophet Jacob taught, “The Spirit speaketh the truth and lieth not. Wherefore, it speaketh of things as they really are, and of things as they really will be; wherefore, these things are manifested unto us plainly, for the salvation of our souls.” Dear sisters, I wish to speak of “things as they really are, and of things as they really will be.”  For many of us, comparing ourselves to a practically perfect Latter-day Saint woman is part of how things are. While some of us are motivated and encouraged by such imagined or real-life models, others of us are disheartened and discouraged by this same ideal woman—whether she is a composite of many women, or someone of whom we have read, or even someone we know.As women make these comparisons, I hear such comments as: “When they talk about being a good mother in Relief Society, I always feel so guilty because sometimes I shout at my children.” “I’m not comfortable in church because my husband isn’t active.” “I wish I didn’t have to work, but I need a paycheck to sustain my family.”I’ve heard: “I’m not a mother. I’m not married, and I’m most painfully aware of this in Relief Society and sacrament meeting. I often go home feeling that they don’t know what to do with me in the Church.”These statements and others like them come, I believe, from unrealistic comparisons we make against some ideal. Because I know many of you, I know of your goodness and your individual gifts from the Lord. I can see that these comparisons may keep you from achieving your potential and basking in associations that will enrich your lives and the lives of others. Sometimes the basis for these incorrect comparisons comes from other Relief Society sisters, the Relief Society organization, or expectations about roles in life. Whatever the origin, the point of comparison is wrong unless it accounts for things as they really are—now and forever.The prophet Jacob said things as they “really are” and “really will be” are “manifested unto us plainly, for the salvation of our souls.” Sisters, how are these things manifest unto us? Plainly, through the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, through the example of our Savior’s life. Only by living His gospel can we find what is real. We can never accurately take the measure of our lives based on social, economic, ethnic, age, marital, or physical conditions. Ask yourself, are the comparisons you may make of yourself and others based on the model of the Savior’s life, or do they come from trying to fit your life into the pattern of others’ lives?Sometimes comparisons creep up on us. We sit in Relief Society surrounded by our neighbors and friends, all of whom seem to raise the best children, to teach the most profound lessons, and to possess the greatest spirituality. It can feel so discouraging.Some of you may say, “I’m just average. There’s nothing special about me or my life.” And yet what is manifested plainly to me is that you are extraordinary, you whose average day is lived in accordance with our Heavenly Father’s laws.No greater heroine lives in today’s world than the woman who is quietly doing her part. Generally unsung, you live everywhere—you live in Nebraska or Puerto Rico or Ghana or Canada or Czechoslovakia. You show your love for the Lord daily as you support husbands, nurture children, care for parents, benefit neighbors, serve in your schools, sit on community councils, and do much of the work of this world in and out of the home. No one is more impressive than you.I promised to introduce you to the typical Relief Society sister.The good news is that she actually does exist.The better news is that she is wonderful.The best news is that she’s And this is who you really are!If I could have the desire of my heart for you, it would be that you feel valued for your own goodness. The starting point is knowing that you are a daughter of God. The Young Women say together each week, “We are daughters of our Heavenly Father who loves us, and we love him. We will stand as witnesses of God at all times, and in all things and in all places.” (See The Primary children sing, “I belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know who I am. I know God’s plan. I’ll follow him in faith.” When my grandchildren and their parents sing this song together with great enthusiasm, it brings tears of joy. I know who  am, I know God’s plan, and this knowledge makes all the difference.We Relief Society sisters follow our motto, Charity Never Faileth. This motto is very personal to me. It means that we love our Heavenly Father, and we best express that love through all that we do for others.To rejoice in being a daughter of God, to know God’s plan, and to follow the Savior’s example of service—these things are real.The Savior taught the Samaritan woman at Jacob’s well:“Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.“The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not.” A Relief Society sister in Ghana visits a woman who thirsts for truth but cannot read. To give her sister the opportunity to drink deeply of gospel truths, the visiting teacher tries to be with her as often as possible. She reads the scriptures to her sister and explains their meaning, in her native tongue.We’ve learned of a remarkable, peppy, saintly, 60-year-old woman. She lives in Czechoslovakia. She is one of the handful of Saints who has remained active during the forty-year slumber when that country was denied full religious opportunity. The sister shares the gospel’s living water as she takes an 83-year-old branch president for a walk each day and does his shopping for him. He requires two canes for walking, and shopping in Czechoslovakia is no small task.Through their daily acts of service, these women partake of and pass on to others the water springing up into eternal life.Another of you wrote, “I love being a mother. I love teaching my children the gospel. I substituted in Relief Society one week and got to give the lesson on family scripture study. This is something close to my heart, something I can’t imagine family life without. After the lesson, a sister came up to me and said, ‘I can’t believe all you do. I don’t have the patience.’ But she sings and takes music lessons. At times I’ve envied people who could sing well or play an instrument, because I love music.“After my conversation with her I felt that although I had not been blessed with great musical ability, Heavenly Father had blessed me with a love of motherhood and that this indeed was a gift and a talent for which I am grateful.”Isn’t the point of these three examples that each of these sisters serves as she is able, according to the needs around her? Isn’t that the point of your life?Look at all you do. You make quilts for orphans and visit women in prison. You change countless diapers and kiss away endless tears. You collect clothing for earthquake victims. You tutor underachieving children. In the Church you preside, teach, counsel, visit teach, and render countless other acts of service. You may serve as Relief Society president, or librarian, or Star A teacher, or Gospel Doctrine teacher. All you do blesses children, youth, women, and men in every unit of the Church.Our focus in Relief Society for this new decade reflects our quest for things that are real and for the salvation of our souls. Our focus reflects our love and admiration for you, our sisters. We want you to live lives of spiritual maturity and fulfillment, free of unrealistic comparisons. In Relief Society we focus on these five points:First: Build personal testimony. This means leading lives of faith and hope, and becoming thoughtful, prayerful disciples of our Savior.Second: Bless the individual woman. I believe in you. I delight in our diversity as Relief Society women and the joy we find in righteous living. The prophet Nephi tells us: “Behold, the Lord esteemeth all flesh in one; he that is righteous is favored of God.” Third: Develop and exercise charity. Our Relief Society motto, Charity Never Faileth, is worth living by. The challenge ahead is to become more active in meeting the real needs of the world around us—loneliness, neglect, illiteracy, homelessness.Fourth: Strengthen families. In the many types of family units, we love and nourish each other as we unite our efforts to become better disciples of our Savior. And then:Fifth: Enjoy a unified sisterhood as we share our faith, our experiences, and our ideas in loving friendship. and —these are propelling, motivating action words that invite our personal best.Our goal is that each of you enjoys the process of life. Build your own personal testimony and rejoice with me in being a typical Relief Society woman.These things are real—testimony, individuality, charity, families, sisterhood. These are real. And so are you. You are everywhere. I pay tribute to you.I pray for the blessings of our Father in Heaven, who loves us, to continue to be with you, in every part of the world, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.