After the resurrection of Christ, the Twelve Apostles preached the gospel in the city of Jerusalem. Their message touched the hearts of many people, and, upon testifying of the truthfulness of the Resurrection, they were asked, “Men and brethren, what shall we do?” Ever since, this very question has been asked by people all over the world, by people like you and me. Daily we are confronted with decisions concerning our physical, emotional, and spiritual well-being of those around us. Our decisions are based upon our understanding of what is good and right for us, and we try to avoid pitfalls and mistakes. We hope for happiness, and we wish for comfort.In my own life, this hope and wish for a happier and more meaningful life causes me to evaluate my daily decisions more carefully. And never do I feel the need for some guiding principle more than when I come to a crossroad, for without some direction I feel incapable of pursuing my course consistently.But it is one thing to know the way, and another to take it. Some of us probably struggle to find guiding principles, some sort of foundation on which to build, and others have designed the perfect plan but never find the motivation, time, or courage to use it. In one way or another, we are paralyzed by the lack of understanding that true happiness comes from realizing our plans, beliefs, and hopes.I believe that the foundation and guiding light for all our decisions is the gospel of Jesus Christ and His message to the world. The teachings of Christ must be embedded in our desire to choose the right and in our wish to find happiness. His righteous life must be reflected in our own actions. The Lord not only teaches love, He  love. He not only preached the importance of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, He  accordingly. His life reflected the gospel that He preached. There was and is total harmony between His thoughts and His actions.I believe that if we want to be true Christians, our lives must be founded on true principles and our actions must reflect that. But I do not believe that we can pick and choose which principles are the most convenient ones. Today, however, I would like to mention those that are true to my heart and that have helped me in my quest to take the Christian course.When a man asked Christ what he should do to inherit eternal life, He answered, “Love the Lord thy God … and thy neighbour as thyself.”  Love is the essence of the gospel and the guiding light for a Christlike life. It not only teaches us to look upward but also to look around us. Our heart, might, and mind must be dedicated to the Lord and to our fellow men, women, and children. But what does that really mean? It means that we follow the admonition of the scripture, “If ye love me, keep my commandments.”  It means that we live the example of the good Samaritan, who was free of prejudice and excuses and therefore truly loved his neighbor. He went the second mile and gave of what he had despite all the odds. His life was one of single-minded service.By contrast, the Apostle James observed that “a double minded man is unstable in all his ways.”  An old Swiss saying describes such indecision in the following words:The Christian course knows no compromise.We are promised by the Lord if we choose His way, we will be blessed beyond our comprehension and in ways that are not measurable.A Christian life demands decision and dedication. It is a dedication that is free of fanaticism but full of understanding and love. It is a dedication that knows no selfishness but yet knows of our personal needs. It is a dedication that embraces all mankind and yet keeps an eye single to the Lord. And it is a dedication that brings joy but is seldom free of hardship, disappointment, and discomfort.It is not always easy to make the right decision, and some of us struggle a life long to find the right course. Remember, it is not for us to judge those who might be confused or who have not the strength to change. What they need is our understanding and support.When Jesus came to the coast of Judea, a young man said to him, “All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?”  The answer Christ gave was simple but powerful: “Go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.”  see also Christ speaks to all of us, not only to the young rich man who went away sorrowful. He commands us to give of our wealth, whatever it might be. For some it is material possessions, for others time or a talent. For those of us who have worldly riches, it does not mean that we cannot enjoy the commodities of life for which we work. But it means that we use them to do good and that we share them with those in need. Our hearts should be set upon helping those in need.But money alone does not lift the burdens of our fellowmen, and many of us live in a time and place where there is little to spare. The world is in need of time, and if we have but one hour to spare, we are wealthy. It takes time to listen and to comfort, it takes time to teach and to encourage, and it takes time to feed and to clothe. We all have the gift to lift each other’s burdens and to make a difference in somebody’s life.The needy are all around us. Too often, however, we are blind to those needs or fear those people whose company makes us feel uncomfortable. Yes, we admire people and organizations for the numerous services they render; and yes, we rejoice in the tremendous social changes many countries experienced during the last few months. But our admiration and interest are not enough. People at home and abroad need our help. Let us decide to serve now, even if that means leaving the comfort of our homes temporarily.Most of the time we do not even have to go too far; within our own communities there are people of all ages who are homeless, terminally ill, and lonely. We cannot hope for a better world, for more perfect governments and societies, if we are not willing to do our share.We need to look around us, and if we cannot see poverty, illness, and despair in our own neighborhood or ward, then we have to look harder. And remember, we cannot be afraid to go beyond our own social and cultural circles. We have to rid ourselves of religious, racial, or social prejudices and expand the boundaries of our service. Service should never discriminate and is hardly ever easy. Did not Jesus Himself mingle with those who were branded unfit by the self-righteous Pharisees? And were not those people the ones who needed Him the most?I understand that the needs of this world can overwhelm us and that injustices of life and the ills of society can paralyze us. But I believe that no good cause is in vain, and if we can only touch one life, the world is a better place. Choose your service today, and choose it wisely. Prepare yourself to be of help to others. There are many good causes inside and outside the Church. There is a need for volunteers who share their time and talents with those who are less fortunate.To love and care for others is a decision. It is the answer to the Lord’s exhortation, “Come follow me.” It is the answer the Apostles gave to those who asked, “What shall we do?” To say “I cannot” is a decision for  It is a decision that will rob us of the very happiness we are seeking. And most of all, it is a decision against a Christlike life.I testify to you that we can only be in the service of our God if we are in the service of our fellowmen. (See  I hope that we all have the wisdom and determination to decide today whom we want to serve. And I pray that we will decide together with the prophet Joshua, “As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.We have just had the privilege of sustaining, with our uplifted hands and deep affection, Ezra Taft Benson as God’s living prophet, his inspired counselors, and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators, and the other General Authorities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And, of course, we acknowledge those other changes made in the auxiliary organizations. We have heard the statistical report indicating a continuing worldwide growth of the Church, with its stabilizing influence, which is the product of the inspired doctrine and policies of the Church.In a recent article, a non-Latter-day Saint scholar gave a fresh and most interesting review of this Church and its unpredicted growth since its restoration 160 years ago. He described its growth as a “miracle” and an “incredibly rare event.” (Rodney Stark, “The Rise of a New World Faith,”  vol. 26, no. 1, Sept. 1984, p. 18.)In 1842 the Prophet Joseph Smith, in answer to an inquiry from the editor of a Chicago newspaper, made the prophetic declaration that “the truth of God will go forth boldly, … till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.” ( 4:540.)During a brief period of weeks, we have witnessed some phenomenal changes in the world, particularly in the Eastern bloc countries, changes which God-fearing men attribute to the hand of the Almighty in bringing about His glorious purposes to fill the earth with the knowledge of the Lord. Walls have come down, gates have opened, and millions of voices have chorused the song of freedom! We rejoice in the dawning of a brighter day.The news media have made the events in eastern Europe appear as a purely political revolution even though many of the oppressed have recognized it as a “religious renaissance” and have acknowledged the influence of divine intervention. ( 16 Mar. 1990, p. 13A.)A prominent national magazine has editorialized on the reasons for this sudden, dramatic change. It was “an idea— … democracy—and its phenomenally successful application in America [and some other parts of the world].”The article concludes, “America’s contribution to the world will continue to be in the realm of ideas and ideals.” (“An American Vision for the 1990s,”  26 Mar. 1990, p. 14.)The peoples in eastern Europe have slowly but effectively been exposed to ideals of truth and basic rights through messages by satellite; radio; printed materials; even programs and recordings by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir; word of mouth, heart-to-heart contacts; and the light of Christ encouraging seeds of truth to seep into their consciousness—a precept here and a precept there—and when the opportunity arrived, they confidently seized upon it.The transformation of once-mighty man-made empires with such speed and determination has released new springs of faith and hope in the hearts of hundreds of millions of oppressed souls. Where there was despair, now the bright light of freedom shines forth. This only could have happened in such a miraculous way by the intervening hand of the Almighty! “Is anything too hard for the Lord?” Just after the Israelites had walked across the Jordan River from Moab into Canaan, Joshua instructed twelve men, one from each tribe, to each take a stone from the dry riverbed of the Jordan to build a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. Paraphrasing Joshua, he said:“When your children ask you what these stones mean, you will tell them about the time when Israel crossed the Jordan on dry ground. Tell them that the Lord your God dried up the water of the Jordan for you until you had crossed, just as He dried up the Red Sea for us. Because of this, everyone on earth will know how great the Lord’s power is, and you will honor the Lord your God forever.” (See The Bible is replete with admonitions to remember the mighty acts of God as He has intervened in history for His people. We are witnesses of His mighty, intervening hand in the world even today.God is our Father. He is concerned about the welfare of His children everywhere. But even a patient, loving Heavenly Father must weary of tolerating ungodliness as evidenced when “the Lord rained upon Sodom and … Gomorrah brimstone and fire from … out of heaven.” Julia Ward Howe felt impressed to share her deep personal feelings for the need of divine direction in the struggle between the states in America. During the night, these eloquent words came into her mind and she quickly wrote them down:President Joseph F. Smith declared:“The Almighty raised up [this nation] by the power of his omnipotent hand, that it might be possible in the latter days for the kingdom of God to be established in the earth.”President Smith continued:“His hand has been over this nation, and it is his purpose and design to enlarge it, make it glorious … to the end that those who are kept in bondage and serfdom may be brought to the enjoyment of the fullest freedom and liberty of conscience possible for intelligent men to exercise in the earth.” (Joseph F. Smith,  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1939, p. 409.)The religious freedom established in America made possible the coming forth of the plain and precious truths of the Book of Mormon “to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that J is the C, the E G, manifesting himself unto all nations.”  These writings are to come unto the Gentiles that they may “know the decrees of God” and repent. It is incumbent upon the members of the Church who have had the gift of religious freedom to share this knowledge and testimony with the peoples of the world. Do not underestimate the profound influence—politically and socially—of the principles of the restored gospel upon all of mankind.“Our mission [is] to save men,” wrote Joseph F. Smith. “We have been laboring all these … years … to bring men to a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bring them to repentance, to obedience … to God’s law … to save [them] from error, … to turn … from evil and to learn to do good.” ( 2d ed., Salt Lake City: The Deseret News, 1919], pp. 87–88.)The opportunity for meaningful service to others is expanding rapidly. To some of us, it’s just across the street; to others, across the ocean. The destiny of many nations is now being decided. Every generation is crucial. We may not be responsible for past generations, but we cannot escape the responsibility for this present one. It is beyond our comprehension to imagine the billions of souls who depend upon us to bring them—someway, somehow—this glorious message of the gospel. Of course, all people will not respond, but all must be given the opportunity to hear and respond after being taught by the Spirit of Christ.Several years ago, upon entering an electrical establishment, Elder James E. Talmage saw an impressive array of lamps, door chimes, and other electrical items. And “having chosen a lamp, [he] turned the switch to test the … light; but lo, there was no light. The attendant told [him] that the lamps were there as an exhibit only, ”He reported, “I turned to the bells, but when I pressed a button I listened in vain for [a] responsive tinkle. And so with everything [else] in the shop—pleasing to look upon, some pieces artistic, all suggestive of usefulness, but, as displayed, they were [only] ornaments and nothing more, for ”Upon leaving the shop Elder Talmage thought, “A burning candle … is worth more in terms of utility than the most elaborate of electroliers without the current.” Then a fitting parallel came to his mind of the “scriptural description of minds and souls darkened and deceived by outward appearances while devoid of spirituality: ‘ (II Tim. 3:5).”  ( Independence, Mo.: Zion’s Printing and Publishing Co., 1944, pp. 389–90.)A few years ago I had an interesting view of the tallest spire in Reykjavik, Iceland, as we were landing at the airport. We were told that this tall building was a church, and after greeting our Saints and inspecting our church building which I was to dedicate, I was curious to visit this other building we had seen from the air with the tall, stately spire. It was very impressive from a distance. However, as we approached the building we discovered that the front door was made of plywood and padlocked. A sign directed us to the back door. This large church building with such an impressive front and its high steeple, we discovered, was only a shell of a building. Though under construction for forty years, the weather-beaten framework was still in place—a reminder of ambitious plans on a grand scale, but lacking the faith and foresight for its completion.Continuing with Elder Talmage, he said: “Men may … erect church buildings—from humble chapel[s] to stately cathedral[s]—but [they are only] elaborate externals if  up with the source of divine wisdom and authority through the [current] of the holy priesthood … [and the] vitalizing power of the Holy Ghost.” ( p. 390).Later, as we met in our smaller but adequate building in Reykjavik, it was comforting to know that it was not just a shell, but had the vitalizing power and Spirit of God in that little building.We declare in all solemnity that the Lord is now preparing the nations of the earth to receive the truth He desires them to have. But in order for a person to accept the truth, he must prepare himself by exercising faith in the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Such faith accepts the existence of God our Father, the teachings of Jesus concerning man’s dealings with his fellowmen, and the teachings concerning Christ’s relationship to God as His Son. Once a person has prepared himself to receive and accept truth, it is then sealed upon his heart by the power of the Holy Ghost, who is the Testifier of Truth. It is then incumbent upon him to so conform his life to those standards of truth. This may require fundamental changes in life-style and the seeking of repentance for sins committed.The Lord’s power is at hand and evident. True believers will have unusual opportunities to be of service. I am convinced that those who labor unselfishly in behalf of others, with no thought of remuneration, will be physically and spiritually refreshed and renewed. We must prove ourselves, have the desire, and be found worthy to assist the Lord in accomplishing His purposes with men on earth.I testify that the name of Jesus Christ is the only name under heaven whereby men may be saved and that all men, everywhere, must be brought to a knowledge of this truth if they are to receive the great, eternal exaltation provided by a gracious and loving Father.The Lord instructed his young prophet Joseph in October of 1831:“The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” I testify we are witnessing the fulfillment of this promise, and that this work, given by Almighty God to His Son to proclaim, to teach, and finally to judge, will be done with eternal love, in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.