Brothers, sisters, and friends, as the Apostle Paul counseled the Thessalonian Saints, “In every thing give thanks”  today I would like to express my gratitude for some of the special blessings in my life.I am very grateful to have been born and reared in a Christian family, where from the earliest years of my life I had the privilege of coming to know and appreciate the sacred scriptures of the Bible.I am grateful to have been taught the principles of honesty, hard work, and thrift even more by the daily example of my parents and relatives than by their words and counsel.In those now distant past days of my adolescence, I chose to pursue a career in the military. In the academy I was taught by my leaders and professors in the principles of discipline, obedience, and dedication. For that experience, my soul is also filled with gratitude.When I was still young, at the time it occurred, I considered the unfortunate accident that prevented my continuing a military career to be a terrible impediment to the realization of my fondest dreams. However, today, at this point in my life when my brown hair has been substituted for white and now even threatens to abandon me entirely, I have come to recognize that accident as a blessing in disguise, destined to propel my life in other paths that have led to higher levels of understanding and self-realization. I am also grateful for this.I am grateful as I contemplate the years that have passed and the happenings that have unfolded, measuring what the Lord has given me and considering the sure promises for a happier future—a future made even happier by the company of relatives and friends who have preceded me in passing to the other side of the veil. I am grateful for those loved ones with whom I still enjoy living every day—particularly the extraordinary woman that God allowed me to have as a wife in mortality and throughout eternity. Also, I am grateful for the wonderful children and grandchildren he sent to our home to be the joy of our life. As I contemplate all these blessings, gratitude is the predominant feeling that comes to my heart.Because of these and many other blessings that I cannot describe adequately, when I received the invitation to speak during this conference, gratitude was the primary theme that first came to my mind.I express appreciation to those who preserved the Bible for future generations, beginning with the faithful patriarchs of Israel and then passed on by those dedicated scholars who translated the prophets’ writings into Greek—the universal language of the time—and thus preserved for us that precious version of the Old Testament known as the Septuagint. Later, there were the steadfast individuals who tirelessly worked to copy the scriptures during the Middle Ages and who patiently reproduced and defended them from the barbarians who invaded Europe. I also pay honor and praise to the courageous reformers of the sixteenth century who translated the scriptures into the language of the people and made them available for the general reading and edification of all the children of God.I express appreciation to our Father in Heaven for Joseph Smith, that humble and faithful prophet through whom were revealed to this generation the spiritual experiences and the precious doctrinal teachings of the prophets who lived in this hemisphere and recorded their testimony of Jesus Christ in the scriptures which are today known as the Book of Mormon—the book that casts so much light on the obscure passages of the Bible, confirming the word of God and filling in that marvelous portion of the plan of salvation created by our Father in Heaven for the happiness of his children.I also express appreciation for the good families—descendants of the pioneers who populated these desert valleys—rearing noble children, pure and dedicated, ready to accept mission calls and willing to leave their homes and go into the world sharing the precious truths of the restored gospel with unknown and sometimes hostile people. I express a special thanks to those whose children were called to our native land of Brazil and for all they did for the people generally and for my family particularly.I am grateful to the Almighty for the privilege given to all of us to be born in this generation of immense challenges and bright hopes, of technological progress and magnificent scientific accomplishments. I am also thankful for being born in a free nation where the gospel message can be freely preached for the eternal happiness of all who will receive it.I express gratitude for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—perfect in organization, incomparable in spiritual power, and unassailable in doctrine and practice. I am grateful that in the restored gospel, the truths of the universe are incorporated in such a way that all who embrace them are never forced to abandon any previously known truth, nor any comforting hope, nor any ennobling principle possessed before. To the contrary, these truths of the restored gospel only cause the light already had to shine with greater brilliance—any happiness and joy already experienced to be magnified, and inspired wisdom to be added to the knowledge already acquired. Thus, through the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, an individual can be raised to the highest levels that the human mind and heart can envision.I am grateful especially for the restoration of the priesthood, including the same sealing keys promised by Jesus Christ himself to his Apostles that permit loved ones in our day to be sealed as families forever. (See The recognition of and gratitude for blessings received has been a message emphasized not only by the Apostles and prophets of ancient times, but also even in this time by these prophets who are present with us here in the Tabernacle today.Considering again the admonition of the Apostle Paul, “In every thing give thanks”  we should be grateful for the blessings which we seek and receive as well as for those blessings that come to us that are beyond our current capacity to comprehend. All is provided by God, who is just, loving, and perfect and will result for our good because “all things work together for good to them that love God.” May human pride and pretensions never arise in us to cause us to imagine in those moments of personal victory or accomplishment that it is by our own merit that we have achieved, but rather may we recognize the hand of God in all things because, as we read in modern scriptures, “In nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments.”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.On the walls of our Primary office hang pictures, drawn by children from around the world, which illustrate some of the great events from the Book of Mormon. As I look at them, I feel the spirit of noble prophets and leaders who made choices to be obedient to the Lord in spite of earthly trials. The examples of their faith, courage, love, humility, service, and endurance sustain me and give me strength to face challenges in my own life.So that you might also gain strength from their messages, let me describe some of these plain and simple pictures and share some insights about the powerful principles they teach. The stories are familiar, yet the precepts we learn from them may be different each time we read them. The scriptures have the power to speak to our particular situations wherever we are in life. The insights you gain may be entirely different from the ones that I gain, but they all can strengthen us personally.The first picture is Lehi’s journey. With complete faith that the Lord would guide him day by day, Lehi turned from the security and comfort of his home in Jerusalem and began his journey in the wilderness facing an unknown future.When the unknown looms ahead of me, I gain strength by remembering Lehi and exercising faith that the Lord will guide me.As I look at Nephi building a ship, I can imagine what might have gone through his mind. “How can I do that? I don’t know anything about building a ship. I haven’t had any training!” Instead, he faced his challenge with courage. He said:“If God had commanded me to do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done.“And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot instruct me, that I should build a ship?” So Nephi built a ship.When tasks seem too great or even impossible, I think of courageous Nephi by the water’s edge building a ship.I love to look at the picture of King Benjamin standing on the mighty tower with his loving arms outstretched to all his people. This beloved king, who spent his life in service to others, showed great humility when he willingly admitted his weaknesses and shortcomings and yet stated with conviction that he recognized his calling was from God.“I have not commanded you to come … that ye should fear me, or that ye should think that I of myself am more than a mortal man.“But I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of infirmities in body and mind … , and was suffered by the hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler and a king over this people … to serve you with all the might, mind and strength which the Lord hath granted unto me.” When I feel inadequate and overwhelmed with my own weaknesses, I think of King Benjamin and try again.Picture Alma and Amulek sitting side by side bound with cords in prison. Wicked men persecuted them, imprisoned them, and allowed them to suffer great afflictions because they were testifying of the truth. We know that God’s children, since time began, have suffered for righteousness’ sake and will continue to be tried. I gain strength from reading about Alma and Amulek as I endeavor to meet my individual trials.In a day of ever-changing values in which some say, “If it doesn’t hurt anyone, do what you want,” or “If it feels good, do it,” or “It’s only cheating when you get caught,” I think about Helaman’s stripling warriors. These young men, who were taught correct principles by their mothers, “were exceedingly valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but behold, this was not all—they were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.” Now, that means being true when you are tempted, being true when you don’t want to be, being true when it means standing alone from the rest of the world. Remembering the example of these faithful young men strengthens me in my effort to be steadfast in obeying gospel principles.As I look at the picture of Christ appearing to the Nephites, I remember a dear friend who had a series of traumatic events happen to her in a short period of time. She was physically weakened, emotionally distraught, and spiritually drained. Every day seemed harder for her to face than the day before. She was desperate for comfort. While lying in a hospital bed anticipating an unwanted but necessary surgery, she felt utterly alone. Her thoughts turned to Joseph Smith and his sufferings in Liberty Jail. Then she thought about our Savior, Jesus Christ. She asked her husband to read to her from 3 Nephi. The Nephites had gathered at the temple in the land Bountiful and twice heard a voice they didn’t understand that seemed to come from heaven.“It being a small voice … did pierce them … to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. …“And behold, the third time they did understand the voice. …“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.“They saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe. …“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.” After my friend listened to this passage, a sweet peace enveloped her. For the first time in months she felt relief. Her fears were calmed. She gained strength to carry on.Not only did Christ minister to the multitude; he also gave strength to the children. In the seventeenth chapter of 3 Nephi, Jesus asked that the little ones be brought to him and he gathered them around him.“He took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. …“And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones.“And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them.” When I read this passage, I am filled to overflowing with the love Jesus Christ and Heavenly Father have for me and you and the whole world. He blesses us daily, as he blessed the little children, with a love that gives me strength to go forth with assurance that he will guide me.My dear brothers and sisters, I testify that by prayerfully reading and pondering the Book of Mormon, each of us can gain strength to meet our daily challenges. I know the Book of Mormon is the word of God. Every time I read from its pages I receive a confirmation of its truth. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.