On the walls of our Primary office hang pictures, drawn by children from around the world, which illustrate some of the great events from the Book of Mormon. As I look at them, I feel the spirit of noble prophets and leaders who made choices to be obedient to the Lord in spite of earthly trials. The examples of their faith, courage, love, humility, service, and endurance sustain me and give me strength to face challenges in my own life.So that you might also gain strength from their messages, let me describe some of these plain and simple pictures and share some insights about the powerful principles they teach. The stories are familiar, yet the precepts we learn from them may be different each time we read them. The scriptures have the power to speak to our particular situations wherever we are in life. The insights you gain may be entirely different from the ones that I gain, but they all can strengthen us personally.The first picture is Lehi’s journey. With complete faith that the Lord would guide him day by day, Lehi turned from the security and comfort of his home in Jerusalem and began his journey in the wilderness facing an unknown future.When the unknown looms ahead of me, I gain strength by remembering Lehi and exercising faith that the Lord will guide me.As I look at Nephi building a ship, I can imagine what might have gone through his mind. “How can I do that? I don’t know anything about building a ship. I haven’t had any training!” Instead, he faced his challenge with courage. He said:“If God had commanded me to do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done.“And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot instruct me, that I should build a ship?” So Nephi built a ship.When tasks seem too great or even impossible, I think of courageous Nephi by the water’s edge building a ship.I love to look at the picture of King Benjamin standing on the mighty tower with his loving arms outstretched to all his people. This beloved king, who spent his life in service to others, showed great humility when he willingly admitted his weaknesses and shortcomings and yet stated with conviction that he recognized his calling was from God.“I have not commanded you to come … that ye should fear me, or that ye should think that I of myself am more than a mortal man.“But I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of infirmities in body and mind … , and was suffered by the hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler and a king over this people … to serve you with all the might, mind and strength which the Lord hath granted unto me.” When I feel inadequate and overwhelmed with my own weaknesses, I think of King Benjamin and try again.Picture Alma and Amulek sitting side by side bound with cords in prison. Wicked men persecuted them, imprisoned them, and allowed them to suffer great afflictions because they were testifying of the truth. We know that God’s children, since time began, have suffered for righteousness’ sake and will continue to be tried. I gain strength from reading about Alma and Amulek as I endeavor to meet my individual trials.In a day of ever-changing values in which some say, “If it doesn’t hurt anyone, do what you want,” or “If it feels good, do it,” or “It’s only cheating when you get caught,” I think about Helaman’s stripling warriors. These young men, who were taught correct principles by their mothers, “were exceedingly valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but behold, this was not all—they were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.” Now, that means being true when you are tempted, being true when you don’t want to be, being true when it means standing alone from the rest of the world. Remembering the example of these faithful young men strengthens me in my effort to be steadfast in obeying gospel principles.As I look at the picture of Christ appearing to the Nephites, I remember a dear friend who had a series of traumatic events happen to her in a short period of time. She was physically weakened, emotionally distraught, and spiritually drained. Every day seemed harder for her to face than the day before. She was desperate for comfort. While lying in a hospital bed anticipating an unwanted but necessary surgery, she felt utterly alone. Her thoughts turned to Joseph Smith and his sufferings in Liberty Jail. Then she thought about our Savior, Jesus Christ. She asked her husband to read to her from 3 Nephi. The Nephites had gathered at the temple in the land Bountiful and twice heard a voice they didn’t understand that seemed to come from heaven.“It being a small voice … did pierce them … to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn. …“And behold, the third time they did understand the voice. …“Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.“They saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe. …“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.” After my friend listened to this passage, a sweet peace enveloped her. For the first time in months she felt relief. Her fears were calmed. She gained strength to carry on.Not only did Christ minister to the multitude; he also gave strength to the children. In the seventeenth chapter of 3 Nephi, Jesus asked that the little ones be brought to him and he gathered them around him.“He took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. …“And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones.“And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them.” When I read this passage, I am filled to overflowing with the love Jesus Christ and Heavenly Father have for me and you and the whole world. He blesses us daily, as he blessed the little children, with a love that gives me strength to go forth with assurance that he will guide me.My dear brothers and sisters, I testify that by prayerfully reading and pondering the Book of Mormon, each of us can gain strength to meet our daily challenges. I know the Book of Mormon is the word of God. Every time I read from its pages I receive a confirmation of its truth. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brothers and sisters, I would like to visit with you for a few moments this afternoon about the resurrection and the importance of going home to our Heavenly Father in a clean condition. Surely there is not much known by the living about the resurrection because neither prophets nor resurrected persons have explained the process to mortals. Only this much: that the atonement of Jesus Christ “bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead”  death being the separation of the spirit from the body.The resurrection has to do with the restoration of the spirit to the body and the body to the spirit. In the words of Alma, “Yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its body; yea, even a hair of the head shall not be lost; but all things shall be restored to their proper and perfect frame.”  And why is this done? Again in the words of Alma, “The resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged according to their works, according to the law and justice.” Jacob gives us some idea of what resurrection will be like:“O how great the plan of our God! For … the paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous, and the grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and the spirit and the body is restored to itself again, and all men become incorruptible, and immortal, and they are living souls, having a perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh, save it be that our knowledge shall be perfect.“Wherefore, we shall have a perfect knowledge of all our guilt, and our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the righteous shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their righteousness, being clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe of righteousness. …“And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it, … they who are righteous shall be righteous still, and they who are filthy shall be filthy still; wherefore, they who are filthy are the devil and his angels.” It seems, then, there is good news and bad news about the resurrection. The good news is that everyone will be resurrected. All will live again! And all who have been righteous (have repented) will still be righteous. The bad news is that he that is filthy (which means the devil and those who have chosen to associate with him) shall be filthy still. Others will receive a lesser glory than the celestial because they have not repented while in the flesh. Therefore, in the resurrection men will be judged. Judgment tells how well we have kept the commandments in the flesh. (See Then, looking forward to what condition we will be in when we are resurrected, probably the most important commandment is, in the words of the Father, “Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son” and then endure to the end.  see also In fact, the Master has indicated we should say nothing but repentance to this generation. (See     Repentance seems to be the most important experience we can have on this earth to prepare for the resurrection, because “none but the truly penitent are saved.” So the question of questions is: What makes people repent? As near as I have been able to determine, once a person has sufficient faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that he believes Christ has paid for his sins, then he will repent. And it seems that very few, if any, will repent until they believe this truth. Therefore, it is vital to teach the truth about Jesus Christ as the literal son of God and our Lord and Savior and Redeemer in order to bring souls to repentance. Faith in Jesus Christ unto repentance  the saving power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See When we experience repentance, we are permitted to make a sacred covenant with God in the waters of baptism. Baptism is for the remission of sins (see   and further, it is a witness before God the Father that we will be obedient unto Him hereafter in keeping His commandments (see Once baptized, we then receive the Holy Ghost, a special gift from God, which is priceless beyond expression. The Holy Ghost bears witness of the Father and the Son and guides us to all truth and comforts us and gives us peace for the rest of our lives. The Holy Ghost is received by the laying on of hands of an elder of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the same time we are received into the Church and become “born again”—sons and daughters of Jesus Christ. (See   I do not believe there will be anyone in the celestial kingdom that is not nice. (See  “To be nice” means much more than just to be good. For instance, probably the nicest thing that parents can do for their children is to give them birth under the temple covenant or to be sealed to them thereafter. There is probably nothing of greater value than this. Why? Because it guarantees to the children eternal life— remain faithful. And this is true irrespective of what happens to the parents.The nicest thing that children can do for their parents is to be obedient unto them. (See  The nicest gift a father can give to his children is to love their mother and be true to her. Conversely, the nicest gift that a mother can give her children is to love their father and be true to him. Why is this such a nice gift? Well, basically, it assures the children that they will never have to choose between their parents.The nicest gift that you can give to nonmember friends or acquaintances is to share the gospel with them. This is probably most easily done by having a copy of the Book of Mormon delivered to them by the missionaries. Why the Book of Mormon? Because it is, in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, “the most correct … book on earth.” ( 4:461.) Why is the Book of Mormon so great? Probably because the “plain and precious” truths that were lost or taken from the Bible were put back or restored in the Book of Mormon. (See  In my opinion, a man can learn more about Jesus Christ by reading the Book of Mormon than any other book.The nicest thing we can do for a less-active member of the Church is to reach out to them with love and tenderness and kindness and bring them back into activity in the Church so that they can go to the temple, which they must do to prepare for a glorious resurrection.The nicest thing we can do for the poor is, in the words of King Benjamin, to “impart of [our] substance to [them], … every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants.” When the Lord invites us to return unto him (see  He means, in essence, that we repent and return to His commandments, for they are calculated to make us happy and prepare us for the resurrection.Well! Which commandments do we have to keep? After baptism, let’s start with the Ten Commandments and add the Word of Wisdom and the law of tithing.Well, what is so important about the Word of Wisdom? If we do not live the Word of Wisdom, we run the risk of killing ourselves. And that’s contrary to the sixth commandment. Here is a statement I took from a package of cigarettes, one of the most popular brands in America: “Surgeon General’s Warning: Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and may complicate pregnancy.” Sounds like it might kill us, doesn’t it?What is so important about tithing? If you don’t pay tithing, you are stealing from the Lord (see  and that’s contrary to the eighth commandment, and no one has ever prospered doing that. On the other hand, when we pay our tithes and offerings, the Lord gives it all back to us “good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over.”  How is that for a promise?The Ten Commandments are eternal laws that  changed from Sinai until now. They are timeless, eternal laws that will never change.Keeping the Ten Commandments plus paying tithes and keeping the Word of Wisdom after baptism is the standard or guide to continue to repent or, in the words of Nephi, to “feast upon the words of Christ.”  Therefore, if you are not paying tithing, repent and start paying it. If you are not living the Word of Wisdom, repent and start living it. If you are not morally clean, repent and become clean.Repentance means to confess and forsake sins (see  and partake of the sacrament, where we renew our baptismal covenant. Then we are clean because we have a Savior who has paid for our sins, but only on condition of our repentance. (See If you are not keeping the Sabbath day holy, repent and start doing it. If you are not truthful, repent and start telling the truth. If you are not honoring your parents, repent and start honoring your parents. If you are worshipping false gods—such as football, baseball, golf, tennis, or money or technology or automobiles or houses or gold or silver—and you can tell what a man worships by what he does on Sunday—repent and start worshipping the true and living God, the maker of heaven and earth and all things that in them are.Brothers and sisters, the gospel is easy to live. All we have to do is stay everlastingly at it.We are here upon the earth to learn how to be happy eternally as we prepare for a glorious resurrection, because man is that he might have joy (see  and we receive our blessings from him whom we list to obey (see  Isn’t it just smart to follow the Lord? In fact, there is no other way, for the Lord God hath spoken it, and He never doth vary from that which He hath said. (See My brothers and sisters, I am a witness before God that He lives and hears and answers prayers. I bear witness that He sent His Son Jesus Christ to pay the price for sin, which He did, and to break the bands of death, which He also did. I know that it is only through Him that we live and move and have our being, that His is the only name given under heaven among men whereby we must be saved  (See    I know that this church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is the only true church on earth, with which the Lord is well pleased—speaking collectively and not individually. These things I don’t just believe—I know them. I also bear record that Ezra Taft Benson is a living, breathing prophet of God.If I have done anything or said anything that has offended anyone within hearing today, I am truly sorry and I humbly beg your forgiveness, for surely the central truth of the gospel is “none but the truly penitent are saved”  to which I bear witness and express to you my love, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.