I am deeply grateful for my calling to serve as Young Men General President. This assignment seemed overwhelming when I received it. It has become ever more challenging as I daily gain a greater appreciation of both the marvelous future you young men can have and the obstacles you must surmount to achieve your goals.Your potential, young men, is described in a Book of Mormon phrase: “the man of Christ.”  What is the man of Christ like? Can you deacons, teachers, or priests become such a man, or is that something reserved for an older generation? While my formal title is Young Men General President, I hope that I am actually presiding over a brotherhood of young men of Christ. I’d like to refer to you young men as “ of Christ.” Even though you are  men, you are  I pray that each of us may come to understand the word of God, which will lead us in a strait and narrow course and help us to avoid a lot of suffering and misery in our lives. I wish to discuss one distinguishing quality of the young man of Christ.This quality was expressed in a word that I recently saw printed on a young man’s worn T-shirt from a bygone youth conference. It read, “Yagottawanna.” I jokingly guessed it might be an ancient Indian word, but I asked him to explain it to me. He gave me that “you gotta be kiddin’” look, but condescended to answer anyway. “‘Yagottawanna,’” he said, “means that you have to  to do something before you will do it.” Of course I knew that all along, but it was good to hear him say it.Whoever planned that youth conference had the right idea. “Yagottawanna” captures several important gospel principles.It reminds me of one of the qualities of godhood. “And there is nothing that the Lord thy God shall take in his heart to do but what he will do it.”  Isn’t it wonderful that we can trust our Father in Heaven to do what he says he will do?There are two elements to this principle. First, God takes something into his heart. When we take something into our hearts, it usually means that we  something. This is the spirit of revelation. (See  It gives an intense feeling of peacefulness or well-being. President Marion G. Romney said that it “comes into our minds and feelings and induces us to do what is right” (“Ye Are a Peculiar People,”  Provo, 10 Apr. 1956, p. 8); it leads us to do good (see How many of you have heard an inspiring thought, hymn, or story, and then had a desire to go do something good? This is not unusual; it is a healthy, spiritual feeling that is essential to our progress. But how often have you  on those feelings? This brings us to the second part of the equation. When God takes it into his heart to do something, whatever it is, he  it. He simply  it.It has been said, “Our feelings were given us to excite to action, and when they end in themselves, they are cherished to no good purpose.” (Daniel Keyte Sandford, in  comp. John P. Bradley, Leo F. Daniels, Thomas C. Jones, Chicago: J. G. Ferguson Publishing Co., 1969, p. 291.) This means that once we have  something, we must  in order to hold on to those feelings we experience. Elder Joseph B. Wirthlin noted that “individuals who do right and ‘hunger and thirst after righteousness’  get and keep alive through their actions the feeling to do right.” ( May 1976, p. 56.) In contrast, those who do not act out their righteous desires place themselves in a dangerous position. As C. S. Lewis said, “The more often [a person] feels without acting, the less he will be able ever to act, and, in the long run, the less he will be able to feel.” ( New York: Macmillan Publishing Co., 1982, p. 61.)“Yagottawanna” also helps us understand the principle of agency. Youth with sincere desires take initiative. They do good things without waiting to be told. They “do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness.”  They  rather than wait to be  They are in control of themselves. Such control is a wonderful feeling. It is a feeling we get when we exercise one of our most precious gifts—that of free agency.“Yagottawanna” also shows an attitude of faith.  is the beginning of faith. The Lord will bless you “even if ye can no more than desire to believe.”  If we let it, this desire will grow into a mature faith that can make things happen.What we desire will ultimately help determine our eternal judgment. Alma said that God “granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life.” Desires change during our lives, sometimes dramatically and quickly, and sometimes gradually. Elder Boyd K. Packer once quoted Lady Astor: “I always dreaded growing old, because then you can’t do all of the things you want to. But it isn’t so bad—you don’t want to!” ( Nov. 1974, p. 89.) Be aware that things that seem all-important to you now will not matter in years to come. But you can choose now to want things that are in harmony with eternity. For example, you can choose to be righteous rather than waste your time on perishable things; you can choose to serve willingly rather than selfishly. Elder Marion D. Hanks has often quoted the wise saying that “the things that matter most must not be at the mercy of the things that matter least.” The choices we make in this life have a very important influence on our eternity.Proper worship illustrates how “Yagottawanna” works. For example, how many of you have assumed the “bored position” during sacrament meeting? You know the position: bent forward at the waist, chin resting on hands, elbows on knees, staring vacantly at the floor. Has it occurred to you that it is your  whether the meeting is interesting or not?Several years ago I heard about a good brother who described his attitude as President David O. McKay gave the concluding talk of general conference. It was a sultry afternoon, and this was the fifth session he had attended. He was sitting in the balcony, and his mind had a serious wandering problem. He noticed a man sitting in the middle section who had fallen asleep with his head tilted back and his mouth open. It occurred to him that if he were in the roof of the Tabernacle, he could drop a spit wad through one of the vent holes right into the mouth of that sleeping man. What a glorious thought! Following the meeting, he overheard two men talking about their feelings during President McKay’s talk. They were visibly moved by what they had heard. He thought to himself, These two brethren were having a marvelous spiritual experience, and what was I doing? Thinking about dropping spit wads from the ceiling!President Spencer W. Kimball said that worship “is an individual responsibility, and regardless of what is said from the pulpit, if one wishes to worship the Lord in spirit and in truth, he may do so. … If the service is a failure to you, you have failed. No one can worship for you; you must do your own waiting upon the Lord.” ( Jan. 1978, p. 5.)One youth described how he first experienced the spirit of worship. He had been marginally active through his Aaronic Priesthood years. When he attended sacrament meeting, he usually sat in the back with a group of his friends, and he was less than a model of reverence. One day, however, he came in a little late, and there were no seats by his friends. He sat alone, and for the first time in his life, he closed his eyes during the prayers, he sang the hymns, he listened to the sacrament prayers, and he paid attention to the speakers. About midway through the first speaker, he found tears welling up in his eyes. With some embarrassment, he carefully glanced around; no one else seemed emotional. He didn’t know for sure what was happening to him, but the experience changed his life. It was during that meeting that he really started his spiritual preparation for his mission. He  something, and fortunately, he acted and thus sustained those feelings. I want to especially emphasize one important desire you should cultivate. “Yagottawanna” keep yourself pure, and free from immoral conduct. (See  You can control your passions. I hope you will cultivate the desire to honor young women. Elder M. Russell Ballard told us during last October general conference that young women want to be treated with courtesy. (See  Nov. 1990, p. 37.) The standards outlined in the pamphlet  are of great value. These Church standards will become  standards when you really cherish them, when you feel something about their value, and when you act in accordance with them. Yes, “Yagottawanna” live these standards.When you are pure in your heart, when you desire that which is good, true, and beautiful, then you can avoid the pitfalls of life. If you build your foundation upon the “rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ,” then the devil “shall have no power over you.” You can also be an influence for good, so that the gospel message will shine through your countenance. I recently heard of a young woman who invited a group of her friends to bring their dates to her home after a dance. One couple stopped on the way to pick up a videotape to watch. As they played it, the group realized it was an R-rated movie. This young woman became disturbed and excused herself to talk to her parents. They reminded her that R-rated movies are not shown in their home and suggested that someone should turn it off. The young woman said she would do it, and she did. Everyone seemed relieved. This is a simple incident, but it illustrates a point. A young woman who  to be good acted on her desires, and a whole group of youth were spared a little bit of evil. Repeated many times over, until it becomes a pattern, such actions can be an influence that will spread through the Church and through society.I ask you men of Christ to cultivate, to cherish, and to maintain righteous desires. “Yagottawanna.” That’s the key to action; it’s the key to happiness. It’s the key to worshipping the Lord, to developing faith, and to maintaining standards of purity.I promise you that the Lord will bless you with right attitudes and desires as you pray to him, attend to your duties, keep the commandments, and serve him. Then you young men will truly be men of Christ. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brethren, it’s good to be with you. To speak in priesthood meeting of general conference is for me literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity because I have never before had this privilege in the fifteen years that I have belonged to the Quorum of the Seventy, and it is not likely that I will have another chance to do so. I therefore consider it a personal blessing to address such a vast audience of worthy men holding the priesthood of God.A great number of you are still single, and many of you are married. To those who are married, I would like to testify, based on my personal experience, that a loving, supportive wife at home is a great source of strength. You probably have heard the saying, “Behind every great man stands a great woman.” In the Church we have changed that adage somewhat by saying, “Behind every great man in the Church stands a surprised mother-in-law.” Because she may say, “Is this the boy who married my daughter? Is he a bishop now? I can’t believe it.” Yes, Mother, that boy has matured, has gained experience by taking upon himself greater responsibilities and has learned to serve the Lord while serving others. In short, he has I would like to talk tonight about  because everything around us seems to be changing at an accelerated pace. In the last two years we have observed tremendous changes in Eastern Europe. Also the recent events in the Persian Gulf region have, understandably so, changed the lives of many people in a dramatic way. It was inevitable that our personal lives as well were influenced by the events around us, and maybe we experienced the discomforting feeling that these changes in the world are beyond our control.Yet there are important changes everyone should be able to make through proper preparation, changes over which we do have control. Brethren, as priesthood holders we should ask ourselves these questions: “Am I giving enough attention and time to personal change, which will make me a better person in the eyes of the Lord?” And “Am I, as a father and spiritual leader in my own home, giving enough attention and time to my basic duties and responsibilities?” These are:Number 1. To lead and direct my family in regular family prayer and study of the scriptures.Number 2. To prepare my sons to receive the priesthood, and the other members in my family to honor the priesthood.Number 3. To encourage my family to be worthy to receive the temple ordinances and be faithful to the covenants made.Number 4. To assist my family members to develop their personal talents and divine gifts to strengthen and serve others.Number 5. To inspire my family members to keep the commandments of God and endure in faith till the end.When we really understand, accept, and commit ourselves to these priesthood duties, we prepare ourselves for a miraculous change with eternal consequences.Have we not been promised that we “might be partakers of the divine nature”?  This means that through personal change we develop a desire to live in harmony with the divine teachings of the Lord and to free our minds from all ill feelings toward other people. To do so will make us more worthy, even more perfect.The old saying “Change is progress” then takes on a special meaning for all of us—because repentance is change, conversion is change, perfecting is change. All this is in complete harmony with the desires of our Heavenly Father and the loving pleadings of the Redeemer.As members of the Lord’s restored church, we have through divine revelation received a perfect knowledge of what the future holds for us.  It perfectly covers our premortal existence, our earthly journey, and our life hereafter, as recorded in the Book of Mormon.Elder Neal A. Maxwell has made the following statement about the manner in which we should read the Book of Mormon: “For some Church members the Book of Mormon remains unread. Others use it occasionally as if it were merely a handy book of quotations. Still others accept and read it but do not really explore and ponder it. The book is to be feasted upon, not nibbled.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1986, p. 28.)Let us, therefore, today feast upon the words of Amulek, the missionary companion of Alma the Younger, as recorded in chapter 34 of Alma, starting with verse 30:“And now, my brethren, I would that,  seeing that the holy scriptures testify of these things, ye come forth and bring fruit unto repentance.“Yea, I would that ye would come forth and harden not your hearts any longer; for behold, now is the time and the day of your salvation; and therefore, if ye will repent and harden not your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be brought about unto you.“For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.“And now, as I said unto you before,  therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed.“Ye cannot say, when you are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.”  italics added.)I pray, brethren, that we may be ever mindful of these admonitions of Amulek, at home, at work, in the community where we live, in our Church callings, and that we may answer the often-quoted question of Alma, “Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?”  with a resounding “Yes, we have!”Brethren, we have to do better, individually and collectively, to strengthen the priesthood base of the Church, to prepare ourselves to carry out our mandate in the next century, which may well show the most significant change in the history of mankind: The change of human hearts everywhere, the true conversion of people in ever-increasing numbers, the rolling forth of the kingdom unto the ends of the earth “as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” Our Heavenly Father has made the promise that He will put a new spirit in people and “take the stony heart out of their flesh.”  The dramatic changes we have experienced in recent years are the beginning of a new era. In the regional representatives’ seminar of April 1987, the following vision was shared by Elder Maxwell:“All things must be done in wisdom and order. The Mormon pioneers were praised for the irrigation of the Utah desert. We are now preparing for the ultimate Mormon irrigation which will come when the Church has grown in numbers and spirituality to such an extent that the gospel truth and righteousness shall sweep the earth as with a flood. We are now in a brief interlude in Church history that precedes a special era, soon to be upon us, when this gospel will be taken to our brothers and sisters in the Third World. Their response may overwhelm us and we must make sure we are firmly established and ready for these brothers and sisters, for they are ready for us. They are now in preparation to hear the word. May God bless us in our preparation to take the word to them.”Brethren, I bear solemn witness that the lines and precepts that I have shared with you tonight are true, that the Book of Mormon is indeed the word of God and the most correct book on earth pertaining to the salvation and exaltation of man.I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer. I also testify that President Ezra Taft Benson is the Lord’s prophet on the earth today. That we all may go out into the world to testify of these simple truths, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.