Brethren, it’s good to be with you. To speak in priesthood meeting of general conference is for me literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity because I have never before had this privilege in the fifteen years that I have belonged to the Quorum of the Seventy, and it is not likely that I will have another chance to do so. I therefore consider it a personal blessing to address such a vast audience of worthy men holding the priesthood of God.A great number of you are still single, and many of you are married. To those who are married, I would like to testify, based on my personal experience, that a loving, supportive wife at home is a great source of strength. You probably have heard the saying, “Behind every great man stands a great woman.” In the Church we have changed that adage somewhat by saying, “Behind every great man in the Church stands a surprised mother-in-law.” Because she may say, “Is this the boy who married my daughter? Is he a bishop now? I can’t believe it.” Yes, Mother, that boy has matured, has gained experience by taking upon himself greater responsibilities and has learned to serve the Lord while serving others. In short, he has I would like to talk tonight about  because everything around us seems to be changing at an accelerated pace. In the last two years we have observed tremendous changes in Eastern Europe. Also the recent events in the Persian Gulf region have, understandably so, changed the lives of many people in a dramatic way. It was inevitable that our personal lives as well were influenced by the events around us, and maybe we experienced the discomforting feeling that these changes in the world are beyond our control.Yet there are important changes everyone should be able to make through proper preparation, changes over which we do have control. Brethren, as priesthood holders we should ask ourselves these questions: “Am I giving enough attention and time to personal change, which will make me a better person in the eyes of the Lord?” And “Am I, as a father and spiritual leader in my own home, giving enough attention and time to my basic duties and responsibilities?” These are:Number 1. To lead and direct my family in regular family prayer and study of the scriptures.Number 2. To prepare my sons to receive the priesthood, and the other members in my family to honor the priesthood.Number 3. To encourage my family to be worthy to receive the temple ordinances and be faithful to the covenants made.Number 4. To assist my family members to develop their personal talents and divine gifts to strengthen and serve others.Number 5. To inspire my family members to keep the commandments of God and endure in faith till the end.When we really understand, accept, and commit ourselves to these priesthood duties, we prepare ourselves for a miraculous change with eternal consequences.Have we not been promised that we “might be partakers of the divine nature”?  This means that through personal change we develop a desire to live in harmony with the divine teachings of the Lord and to free our minds from all ill feelings toward other people. To do so will make us more worthy, even more perfect.The old saying “Change is progress” then takes on a special meaning for all of us—because repentance is change, conversion is change, perfecting is change. All this is in complete harmony with the desires of our Heavenly Father and the loving pleadings of the Redeemer.As members of the Lord’s restored church, we have through divine revelation received a perfect knowledge of what the future holds for us.  It perfectly covers our premortal existence, our earthly journey, and our life hereafter, as recorded in the Book of Mormon.Elder Neal A. Maxwell has made the following statement about the manner in which we should read the Book of Mormon: “For some Church members the Book of Mormon remains unread. Others use it occasionally as if it were merely a handy book of quotations. Still others accept and read it but do not really explore and ponder it. The book is to be feasted upon, not nibbled.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1986, p. 28.)Let us, therefore, today feast upon the words of Amulek, the missionary companion of Alma the Younger, as recorded in chapter 34 of Alma, starting with verse 30:“And now, my brethren, I would that,  seeing that the holy scriptures testify of these things, ye come forth and bring fruit unto repentance.“Yea, I would that ye would come forth and harden not your hearts any longer; for behold, now is the time and the day of your salvation; and therefore, if ye will repent and harden not your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be brought about unto you.“For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.“And now, as I said unto you before,  therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed.“Ye cannot say, when you are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.”  italics added.)I pray, brethren, that we may be ever mindful of these admonitions of Amulek, at home, at work, in the community where we live, in our Church callings, and that we may answer the often-quoted question of Alma, “Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?”  with a resounding “Yes, we have!”Brethren, we have to do better, individually and collectively, to strengthen the priesthood base of the Church, to prepare ourselves to carry out our mandate in the next century, which may well show the most significant change in the history of mankind: The change of human hearts everywhere, the true conversion of people in ever-increasing numbers, the rolling forth of the kingdom unto the ends of the earth “as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.” Our Heavenly Father has made the promise that He will put a new spirit in people and “take the stony heart out of their flesh.”  The dramatic changes we have experienced in recent years are the beginning of a new era. In the regional representatives’ seminar of April 1987, the following vision was shared by Elder Maxwell:“All things must be done in wisdom and order. The Mormon pioneers were praised for the irrigation of the Utah desert. We are now preparing for the ultimate Mormon irrigation which will come when the Church has grown in numbers and spirituality to such an extent that the gospel truth and righteousness shall sweep the earth as with a flood. We are now in a brief interlude in Church history that precedes a special era, soon to be upon us, when this gospel will be taken to our brothers and sisters in the Third World. Their response may overwhelm us and we must make sure we are firmly established and ready for these brothers and sisters, for they are ready for us. They are now in preparation to hear the word. May God bless us in our preparation to take the word to them.”Brethren, I bear solemn witness that the lines and precepts that I have shared with you tonight are true, that the Book of Mormon is indeed the word of God and the most correct book on earth pertaining to the salvation and exaltation of man.I know that God lives and that Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer. I also testify that President Ezra Taft Benson is the Lord’s prophet on the earth today. That we all may go out into the world to testify of these simple truths, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.When Bob Barfuss was on his mission, his mother, Mary, prayed each day, reminding the Lord, in detail, of Bob’s needs. One day she concluded that maybe she shouldn’t take so much of the Lord’s time with her long list of concerns. She said, “I just condensed it to: Heavenly Father, please bless Bob to honor his priesthood.”Brethren, if that simple plea were fully realized in our lives, it would satisfy most needs and prevent most problems. “Bless me, Father, to honor the priesthood.” This should be our daily petition.At a recent stake priesthood meeting, a young man was sustained to receive the Melchizedek Priesthood. When congratulated, the boy’s response was surprising: “Why? That’s no big deal, is it?”No big deal? If he only knew how big! I wondered how he reached such a conclusion. If I were his father, his bishop, his quorum adviser, how would I feel to hear that response?We often say impulsive things as youth that we probably would not say with more maturity. I hope this young man is now serving a mission and getting a better idea of what it really means to bear the Melchizedek Priesthood.President Benson has said, “The greatest power in this world is the power of the priesthood. … No greater honor or blessing can come to man than the authority to act in the name of God.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, p. 219.) What a privilege! What a trust!May I offer two suggestions to help us better honor the priesthood:To have the priesthood conferred upon us does not automatically bless us with power any more than receiving a driver’s license makes us a responsible driver. The Lord declared, “The powers of heaven [can] be controlled … only upon … principles of righteousness.” The power of the priesthood comes gradually. Even our Savior had to master the flesh and grow “grace for grace” until He received a fulness.  We may also, if we are true and faithful to our covenants.However, we may forfeit priesthood power when we commit transgression. Spiritual powers are sensitive and withdraw from evil influences. As Peter warned, we must escape “the corruption that is in the world.” I was proud of a young priest, Rick Dove of Tucker, Georgia, who reported his experience at a rock concert. He observed the drinking, dress, profanity, and general crudeness of the young people there. He said, “I suddenly remembered who I am and felt that I was out of place; so I left.”Sometimes we forget who we are. The other day, I stopped at a magazine shop to buy a newspaper. I was shocked to see a man whom I knew well, a high priest, viewing a magazine in the “adults only” section. He was unaware that I saw him. I was quite disappointed. The thought occurred to me: What if I had been his son, who looked to his dad as a hero?I remembered a conversation between a father and son in Arthur Miller’s play  The son discovers that his father has compromised ethical principles in business. Knowing that losing his son’s esteem is one of the greatest losses he could have, the father says, in effect, “Son, I know; I’m sorry. But really, I’m no worse than anyone else.”The son replies, “Dad, I know; but I thought you were better.”For those who bear the priesthood, young men or adults, there is only one standard of moral decency. Any film, television show, music, or printed material unfit for youth is also unfit for parents.Those who rationalize acceptance of immoral material on grounds of maturity or sophistication are deceived. Those who excuse transgression by saying “Well, I’m not perfect” may be reminded that conscious sin is a long way from perfection. We would do best to consider this counsel of President Brigham Young: “‘Be … as perfect as [you] can,’ for that is all we can do. … The sin … is [not doing] as well as [you know] how.” (In  2:129–30.)The prophet Alma, who suffered “nigh unto death”  repenting of his rebellion and transgressions, pleads: “Come ye out from the wicked, and be ye separate, and touch not [the] unclean things.”  To us, who bear His holy vessels, the Lord commands, “Be ye clean.” The priesthood quorum was designed by the Lord to be the finest service fraternity in all the world. If we had the wisdom and faith to utilize the quorum as the Lord envisions it, we would be magnified before Him, and every member of the Church would be blessed. Isn’t that a primary purpose of the priesthood—to bless, to encourage, to exalt? The quorum maximizes the good which comes from a synergy of brotherhood and service.Let me share some examples of the priesthood in action.An inspiring funeral was held for eighteen-year-old John Anderson. John was a remarkable young man who courageously battled muscular dystrophy and lost. He was confined to a wheelchair during his Aaronic Priesthood years.Conspicuous at the funeral were devoted members of his priests quorum. John’s influence upon his quorum was profound, and yet he never played a football game, nor went camping with them, nor danced, nor did any of the usual teenage activities. It was his faith and commitment to the Church that touched his quorum members. And something else—John provided his quorum with an opportunity to serve with love.When John was a deacon, he wanted to pass the sacrament. One boy was assigned to push his wheelchair while John held the tray on his lap. It seemed awkward at first, but soon others were anxious to help him perform his priesthood duty.By the time John was ordained a priest, he was very weak and could not kneel to bless the sacrament. His quorum found a solution. They placed his wheelchair next to the sacrament table. One would break the bread, then kneel for him, by the wheelchair, and hold a microphone while John pronounced those sacred words. To do this for their brother soon became an honor for each one in the quorum.They enthusiastically followed his leadership as first assistant in the priests quorum. Because John was unable to realize his dream of becoming an Eagle Scout, the priests raised money to buy a special achievement plaque which was given to him in sacrament meeting. It read: “Presented to John Anderson for outstanding service to your quorum and for being a great example to us all.”Over the years, the young men in John’s quorum enjoyed many fun activities, but none had greater impact or taught them more about magnifying their priesthood callings and loving each other than this choice experience they shared with their friend John.We expect a lot from our Aaronic Priesthood brethren, and, properly trained, they seldom disappoint us. I remember when Dr. Harold Hulme served as bishopric adviser to a deacons quorum. They were invited to tour a hospital. As he introduced his quorum to the nurses, one of them said, “How unusual. The deacons in our church are older men.” Dr. Hulme replied, “Well, our deacons are outstanding young men. They can handle it when they are twelve years old!”Remember a few years ago when devastating fires burned out of control in Southern California? As fierce winds blew, the public was restricted from the area by police. A few families were allowed to remain and try to save their homes.Soon a van arrived at one house, filled with brethren from the quorum, carrying their shovels. They were asked: “How did you get past the police barricade?” Response: “It was easy. We just told them our brother lives here.”The count was soon up to thirty-nine brethren who were helping dig a trench for fire protection. A curious police officer appeared and said: “I just want to meet the man who has thirty-nine brothers!”Elder Matthew Cowley once asked an elders quorum president how his elders were getting along as a quorum. “Do you do anything to help one another?” “Oh, yes,” was the response. “We’ve got a member of our quorum in the hospital in New Mexico. He was a vigorous young man, buying a farm, a hard worker with a lovely family. All of a sudden he was stricken.” That could have meant the end of his farm and family security.The elders quorum president said, “That was our loss as much as for his wife and children. So we took over, and we’ve operated that farm. All he has to worry about is getting well.”Many times we magnify our callings individually, quietly, without fanfare. I’m thinking of an elders quorum president, Kirk Barnett of Las Vegas. Visiting a hospital early one morning, he was impressed to ask if any other LDS were there. He was told of an elderly grandmother awaiting her first surgery for a brain hemorrhage. She had no family or friends present, no one to encourage her. She was terrified! President Barnett sat with her for two hours. His hand was white from her strong grip. She said she loved him at least twenty times.Brethren, we are the sons of God. We have been commissioned of Jesus Christ to bear His holy priesthood and to build up His church. We must expand our awareness as quorums and as individuals, and increase our caring capacity. Let us live righteously and extend the healing power of the priesthood, through loving quorum service, to “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.” In his last tender letter to Moroni, Mormon concluded: “My son, be faithful in Christ.”  I believe that would be the loving counsel of every father or mother to a son: Be faithful in Christ. So may we be, and honor His priesthood. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.