Having all been richly nourished by this general conference, it is fitting to focus prescriptively on the few in the Church who remain spiritually undernourished, including those who have grown weary and fainted in their minds. (See A few of these few have had their faith scorched, such as by the circumstances of wrenching or unrelieved sickness, grinding economic pressures, loss of a loved one, or deep disappointment with a spouse or friend. Adversity can increase faith or instead can cause the troubling roots of bitterness to spring up. (See  A few have been overcome by the preoccupying cares of the world, those wearying, surface things of life. (See  Emerson’s plea is surely appropriate: “Give me truths: for I am weary of the surfaces.” (“Blight,” in  New York: Wm. H. Wise & Co., 1929, p. 874.) A few are fatigued by unconfessed sins. A few tire from milling about haltingly in the “valley of decision.”  see also  A few, foolishly focusing on something other than Jesus, the Sure and True Foundation, are drained by disappointment. (See Whatever the preceding causes, any fainting in our minds brings a loss of spiritual consciousness and, with this, the inclination to charge God foolishly. (See The urgings for us not to weary in well-doing contain prescriptions to avoid such weariness. (See    We are to work steadily, but realistically, and only expect to reap “in due season.”  We are to serve while being “meek and lowly”  avoiding thereby the wearying burdens of self-pity and hypocrisy. We are to pray always so that we will not faint, so that our performance will actually be for the welfare of our souls, which is so much more than just going through the motions. (See   Even when righteously chastised or rebuked, we need not faint, for in the correcting is renewing love: “My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:“For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.” One’s life, therefore, cannot be both faith-filled and stress-free. President Wilford Woodruff counseled us all about the mercy that is inherent in some adversity: “The chastisements we have had from time to time have been for our good, and are essential to learn wisdom, and carry us through a school of experience we never could have passed through without.” (In  2:198.)Therefore, how can you and I really expect to glide naively through life, as if to say, “Lord, give me experience, but not grief, not sorrow, not pain, not opposition, not betrayal, and certainly not to be forsaken. Keep from me, Lord, all those experiences which made Thee what Thou art! Then let me come and dwell with Thee and fully share Thy joy!”Serving, studying, praying, and worshiping are four fundamentals in perfecting “that which is lacking in [our] faith.”  If we cease nurturing our faith in any of these four specific ways, we are vulnerable.Failure to study, for instance, is to be intellectually and spiritually malnourished. Inspired words do matter, for “when a man works by faith he works by … words.” ( 7:3.) In a hardening world, the Lord can pierce our consciousness by using “the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.”  see also  However, hearing must be “mixed with faith”  and with Christian service, as we have heard again and again in this conference.“For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served, and who is a stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents of his heart?” A lack of deep personal prayer and deep genuine worship also erodes our faith, and we may “faint in the day of trouble.” Much of any weariness is attributable to carrying the heavy natural man. Unlike others we might carry, the natural man is heavy, and he is not our brother!So much depends upon our individual faith. The Apostles pled, “Lord, Increase our faith.”  No wonder, brothers and sisters, because we are to “walk by faith, not by sight.”  Life is so designed that we are to “overcome by faith”  not by intellectual acuity or wealth or political prowess.Nevertheless, seekers after the rewards of faith are often disappointed when they are told to study, serve, pray, and worship. As with leprous Naaman, they apparently expect some great thing which requires no obedience to counsel. (See Faith brings with it the expanding “evidence of things not seen.”  Some mortals dismiss this real, spiritual evidence because “the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him … because they are spiritually discerned.”  But this provincialism on the part of others should not deprive the rest of us of energizing evidence.Building faith is often preceded by shaping circumstances, benefiting those who are “in a preparation to hear the word.”  These beginnings require at least a “desire to believe” and then comes the exercising of a “particle of faith.” As we “give place” and plant the seed of faith, it grows discernibly. We are invigorated as it enlightens and swells. (See  We become our own internal auditors, confirming this increase in our faith. It is better to so nourish our faith in what seems to be an ordinary process than to experience extraordinary things only to stumble later over life’s ordinary challenges.However, in this process of personal experimentation and verification, the several, sacred steps cannot be skipped over: “For ye receive no witness until after the trial of your faith.” Moreover, acquiring faith is not a one-time thing: “But if ye neglect the tree, and take no thought for its nourishment, behold it will not get any root; and when the heat of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no root it withers away.” Our “neglect,” brothers and sisters, takes so many forms. Similarly, the withering “heat of the sun” is felt in so many ways.Experience by experience, faith can yield to knowledge “in that thing,” meaning the particularized verifications of gospel truths.  It was so with the brother of Jared: “He had faith no longer, for he knew.”  Brigham Young assured that “every principle God has revealed carries its own convictions of its truth to the human mind.” (In  9:149.) Jesus clearly declared that “if any man will do his will, he shall know.”  However, Jesus described the steady process as being one of “line upon line, precept upon precept.” But we’re all at different points in this process, aren’t we, of desiring, experimenting, verifying, and knowing. Hence “to some it is given … to know. … To others it is given to believe on their words.” While faith is not a perfect knowledge, it brings a deep trust in God, whose knowledge is perfect! Otherwise, one’s small data base of personal experience permits so few useful generalizations! But by searching the holy scriptures, we access a vast, divine data bank, a reservoir of remembrance. In this way, the scriptures can, as the Book of Mormon says, enlarge the memory. (See Fully formed faith has several, distinct facets. Faith in God and in the Lord Jesus Christ includes not only faith in Their existence but also in Their redemptive capacities. The Lord has assured us, “I will show unto the children of men that I am able to do mine own work.”  Is He ever able! Indeed, “in him all things hold together.” (Revised Standard Version,  Nevertheless, some doubt that God’s announced purposes will actually triumph.Faith also includes trust in God’s timing, for He has said, “All things must come to pass in their time.”  Ironically, some who acknowledge God are tried by His timing, globally and personally!Faith likewise includes faith in God’s developmental purposes, for “the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith.”  Still, some of us have trouble when God’s tutoring is applied to us! We plead for exemption more than we do for sanctification, don’t we, brothers and sisters?A reassuring promise is given us in this journey: “And any man that shall go and preach this gospel of the kingdom, and fail not to continue faithful in all things, shall not be weary in mind, neither darkened.” But what if, from time to time, we appear to be doing all four of these essential things—serving, studying, praying, and worshiping—and still seem to obtain a lesser measure of the promised blessings?First, check “the equipment”! All four components are needed, and one may be missing or malfunctioning.Second, go back to a very basic question: Does one really have an inner “desire to believe”?  Frankly, some find discipleship constraining and the world appealing. These individuals are merely going through the motions without real intent.Third, do we naively expect Christ to come to us—instead of our going to Him? Truly He waits “all the day long” with open arms to receive the repentant.   There are no restrictive “office hours.” But it is we who must arise and go to Him! (See Blessed are the meek for they shall not be easily offended, which is especially important, since “My people must be tried in all things, … and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom.” Genuine faith makes increasing allowance for these individual tutorials. In view of these tutorials, God cannot, brothers and sisters, respond affirmatively to all of our petitions with an unbroken chain of “yeses.” This would assume that all of our petitions are for that “which is right” and are spiritually “expedient.”    No petitioner is so wise! Paul even acknowledged that we sometimes “know not what we should pray for as we ought.”  see also For example, in process of time, our personal inconsistencies may be made inconveniently clear. How else shall we see what we lack? Spiritual refinement is not only to make the gross more pure but to further refine the already fine! Hence, said Peter, we should not think a “fiery trial” to be “some strange thing.” Real faith, however, is required to endure this necessary but painful developmental process. As things unfold, sometimes in full view, let us be merciful with each other. We certainly do not criticize hospital patients amid intensive care for looking pale and preoccupied. Why then those recovering from surgery on their souls? No need for us to stare; those stitches will finally come out. And in this hospital, too, it is important for everyone to remember that the hospital chart is not the patient. Extending our mercy to someone need not wait upon our full understanding of their challenges! Empathy may not be appreciated or reciprocated, but empathy is never wasted.When you and I make unwise decisions, if we have frail faith, we not only demand to be rescued but we want to be rescued privately, painlessly, quickly—or at least to be beaten only “with a few stripes.”  Brothers and sisters, how can we really feel forgiven until we first feel responsible? How can we learn from our own experiences unless these lessons are owned up to?In the trial of faith, we may sometimes feel God has deserted us. The reality is that our behavior has isolated us from Him. It is when we first feel the consequences of our mistakes and are just turning away from these, but have not yet turned fully to God, that we may have these feelings of being forsaken.No part of walking by faith is more difficult than walking the road of repentance. However, with “faith unto repentance”  we can push the roadblock of pride away and beg God for mercy. One simply surrenders, worrying only about what God thinks, not about what “they” think.Growing out of our faith in the Lord is our sustaining of His anointed leaders, as we have done at this April conference. Faithful Church members have what Peter called an “unfeigned love of the brethren.”  Collectively but not perfectly, those sustained do the work to which God has called them. As with Joseph Smith, so it is for his succeeding Brethren. The operative promise persists: namely, the people of the Church will never be turned away “by the testimony of traitors.”  But the faithful know something about divine determination. They know that the Lord’s purposes will finally triumph, for “there is nothing that the Lord thy God shall take in his heart to do but what he will do it.”  Of that divine determination and divine love I gladly and publicly testify in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.Last Sunday Latter-day Saints joined together with the entire Christian world in remembering and celebrating Easter. We were worshipping our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, and honoring his resurrection. We were also thanking God, as we have done today on this special day of prayer, for the liberation of Kuwait and the hope of lasting peace in the Persian Gulf area with the returning of troops to their homelands.When Christ was born to this world, angels proclaimed, “Peace on earth, good will toward men.” (See  Yet in the two thousand years since that proclamation there has been little peace in the world. Even with the successful cessation of major hostilities in the Gulf, there still remains an uneasy peace between some nations and great unrest within other nations. Just as Christ’s atonement has saved us from both physical and spiritual death, the peace of which the Savior of mankind spoke is also both physical and spiritual.Today I’d like to speak about this spiritual peace offered by Christ in the Sermon on the Mount, when he gave us the beautiful beatitude about peace and peacemakers. The entire sermon is a blueprint for us to use in our personal path towards perfection, as well as a pattern of the many attributes and qualities we must develop in our eternal quest to approach the perfection and peace Jesus personifies.I like to think of when the sermon was first taught. In my mind’s eye, I see a scene of peaceful beauty: I envision an afternoon in early April. The sky is softening toward dusk, with not even a breeze. White, wispy cirrus clouds stand almost motionless in the clear blue sky. And below, on the coast of the Sea of Galilee, soft waves lap against moored fishing boats. A great crowd assembles on the side of the hill. Eager listeners sit on the grass or stand amidst the rocks and early spring flowers. All are hushed and thoughtful as every face is lifted up, every eye looking towards the Lord, and every ear listening as the Savior tells them what they need to do in order to have peace in their lives.Tenderly Christ speaks: “Blessed are the peacemakers.”  Another Bible translator quotes the Savior, saying, “Happy are those who  peace.” ( trans. J. B. Phillips, New York: The Macmillan Co., 1958, p. 9; italics added.) Either way, we focus on the strong verb  as in “make peace” or “peacemakers.” To follow Christ and bring forth the blessings of heaven, we must actively make peace in the world, in the community, in the neighborhood, and above all, in the home we live in.In the meridian of time, many expected Christ to take a political stand against Roman rule and offer peace to the oppressed people. Christ did indeed offer peace, but it was not external or political; rather, the peace Christ taught was internal and personal.I would like to share an incident which took place during the Vietnam War. There were some who were convinced that the United States was engaged in a noble and justifiable war. However, public opinion was changing, and there was opposition which argued that the U.S. should pull out of Vietnam.President Harold B. Lee was the President of the Church at the time. While at an area conference in another country he was interviewed by reporters from the international news services. One reporter asked President Lee, “What is your church’s position on the Vietnam War?” Some recognized the question as a trap—one which could not be answered without a very real risk of being misunderstood or misinterpreted. If the prophet answered, “We are against the war,” the international media could state, “How strange—a religious leader who is against the position of the country he is obliged to sustain in his own church’s articles of faith.” On the other hand, if President Lee answered, “We are in favor of the war,” the media could question, “How strange—a religious leader in favor of war?” Either way, the answer could result in serious problems regarding public opinion both inside and outside the Church.President Lee, with great inspiration and wisdom, answered as would a man who knows the Savior: “We, together with the whole Christian world, abhor war. But the Savior said, ‘In me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation.’”  And then the prophet quoted that other comforting scripture from John: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you.”  President Lee then explained: “The Savior was not talking about the peace that can be achieved between nations, by military force or by negotiation in the halls of parliaments. Rather, he was speaking of the peace we can each have in our own lives when we live the commandments and come unto Christ with broken hearts and contrite spirits.” (See  Nov. 1982, p. 70.)A tender, sweet story about receiving peace from the scriptures appeared in the January 1991  submitted by Sister Carole Seegmiller. Using a few excerpts, I quote from her article: “Dad decided that our family should begin an intensive study of the scriptures to help my brother Bruce prepare for his mission. Dad’s goal was to read the entire Book of Mormon before Bruce left, tape-recording our voices as we went along. … We would take turns reading a chapter [each]. …“The family finished the Book of Mormon a few months later. … So Dad decided we should read and record the four Gospels from the New Testament. I complained this time, telling Dad that I didn’t see the point: we could buy audiotapes of professionals reading the scriptures—and they sounded a lot better than we did. Still Dad persisted. ‘Carole, one day these tapes will be a great blessing to us.’ …“I began to enjoy these times together with the family. I especially liked to hear Dad share his personal insights about a passage. Soon I began to sense the peace that comes through studying the scriptures. We finished reading the four Gospels shortly before Bruce left for the Missionary Training Center. …“After Bruce left, I noticed how comforting the tapes were to Dad. He often listened to them, partly just to hear Bruce’s voice, I thought, since they had been very close. Sometimes at night Dad would fall asleep listening, and I would smile to myself as I heard the familiar click-click-click of the recorder that had run to tape’s end. …“When Bruce had been gone for more than a year, Dad died quietly of a heart attack. … All of our family members … gathered except Bruce, who had determined to finish his mission.“That evening, after [the funeral] … , I was feeling low. I went upstairs to Dad’s room and dejectedly sat down at his desk. I noticed his well-used tape recorder lying nearby; inside was one of our tapes of the New Testament, which Dad must have listened to the very night before he died. I began rewinding the tape, stopping it at random, hoping to find solace in hearing the gentle resonance of Dad’s voice. … I sat upright as my father spoke from the tape:“‘Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.’ … “I listened to that passage over and over; the words reached out and wrapped a comforting arm around me. …“Peace did come to us that night. … Since then, I have tasted the sweet peace of the New Testament time and time again. To me, that is its greatest message.” ( Jan. 1991, p. 27.)One of the world-famous prayers of St. Francis of Assisi suggests that we can be instruments in the hands of the Savior for bringing personal peace to others. This is the essence of the true “maker of peace.”The prayer reads:To be a maker of peace, it helps if we understand what brings peace. Paul says that it is the Spirit: “The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace.”  Our closeness to the Lord will, in great measure, determine the peace and comfort and renewed strength that we feel as we invite the Spirit into our lives.As I was preparing for this occasion a man phoned. His priesthood leader had requested earlier that I accept his call. Desperately he pleaded, “We need to see someone. We just have to find some peace in our lives.” There are probably as many different sources of personal strife and lack of peace as there are people. The roots might be in one’s own life or in the life of a loved one. The causes can be sin, failure to live the commandments of God, selfishness, pride, lack of love, lack of commitment, lack of willingness to make sacrifices for others, or even just being an innocent victim. No matter what the reason, the solution to achieve peace is always the same: Turn to Christ; follow his example; repent of all transgressions. His command to the storm-tossed sea, “Peace, be still”  can also apply to his calming influence in our lives as we experience the buffetings of life’s storms.Personal peace and our level of spirituality will increase as we focus on studying and thinking about Christ every day; by loving and thanking Christ more each day for his atoning sacrifice; by daily striving to serve Christ better through becoming more involved in missionary service; by making a greater effort to find his lost sheep, his lost coins, his lost prodigals, and helping them to return to the fold; by making a more concerted effort to be in the temple more frequently; and by researching more diligently our family’s history. Is there any peace greater than that of the faithful missionary, the caring shepherd, the dedicated temple patron and worker?In spite of all the problems in the world today, peace can come to the hearts of each of us as we follow the Savior. Christ is the way to peace, the truth of peace, the life of peace, the source of peace. Look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, talk of Christ, rejoice in Christ, preach of Christ, [see  live as Christ would have us live, and worship him and our Heavenly Father with all your heart, might, mind, and strength.May peace be with you—this day and always—is my prayer in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.