When I was released as a stake Young Women president, I was surprised to find that it was camp that I missed most of all. I missed the fun and excitement of young women learning to appreciate the world around them, and the tender testimonies of those who had “never felt that way before.” I missed the young women I had grown to love. And I missed sleeping under the stars.There’s something magic about sleeping under the stars at a Young Women camp, especially on a dark night when there’s no moon and the stars are bright. It’s a perfect setting for quiet talks about things that matter most and for music. No matter how tired the girls may be, there’s music—little groups singing somewhere in the dark as they settle in for the night—and, at times, the faraway sound of a ukulele or guitar. I found that sleeping outside keeps one closer to the action when someone needs help or comfort or counsel in the middle of the night.It had been a night such as this that last year I went to camp. About the time the last tearful campers were tucked into bed and the camp was finally quiet, I noticed the first hint of morning in the sky. We had been looking for a place to hold a sunrise service, and because I was still awake, this seemed to be the perfect time to find it. So I slipped out of my sleeping bag and headed up a little trail through the trees. Coming up over a small rise, I found a grassy meadow where you could look out over the valley and the mountains to the north. I stood there for a long time watching the sky grow lighter and the clouds turn from grey to pink and then white.As it grew light, the mountains across the valley seemed in some way to be familiar to me even though I had never been in this location before. I dismissed the thought at first, and then realized that I was looking at the back side of the same mountains that I knew so very well from a different viewpoint. These were the mountains that I could see from my bedroom window at the ranch when I was a child growing up. Many times I had watched them change color on stormy days as clouds would gather over them, and the rain came down the valley where our ranch was located.Memories flooded back of my mother and father and their love for me. I thought of my Heavenly Father and how he had blessed me. As I stood there watching the sunrise, I could feel the warmth of the Savior’s loving, guiding hand. I knew without being told that I was a literal daughter of God and, because of the sacrifice of his Son, I can be with my earthly parents again some day and live in the presence of our Heavenly Father. I had taught this truth many times to others, but this morning it seemed as if I had discovered it for the first time. Perhaps I really had. I had received a witness of the Spirit.Standing on that hilltop, I thanked my Heavenly Father for what I knew. And I promised to dedicate my life to his service. I can’t express the joy of that moment. I wanted to hurry back to camp and wake everyone up. I wanted to tell them who they really are, daughters of God! I wanted to tell them to have faith, to talk to our Heavenly Father—to stop worrying about little things or things they can’t change. I wanted them to know that God lives and watches over us, and through his Son, Jesus Christ, all things are possible. All he asks is that we do the best we can with what we have and stay close to him. I wanted to tell them, “You’re a daughter of God and he loves you. He needs you—every one of you! Do you know that?!”When I got back to camp, I didn’t wake them up. People don’t listen very well when they’re half asleep. I saved it for another time—for today.My young sisters, do  know that you are daughters of God? If each one of you could only have a sure knowledge of this for yourself, you would have a sweet peace in your heart and confidence to meet any challenges that life may bring. There would never be a question of what to do when temptations come your way.Many of you know what I’m saying is true. You who you are. You have felt the Savior’s loving, guiding hand as you have followed the promptings of the Holy Ghost and have found the peace I speak of in your hearts. People around you can tell who you are; they can see it in your eyes and feel the spirit you radiate as they associate with you. We have met many of you as we have traveled throughout the world. We have heard you make your commitment to stand “as [a witness] of God at all times and in all things, and in all places”  as you have repeated the Young Women theme in many different languages. We have hugged a lot of you and talked to many of you. How thrilled we are to see how prayer, scriptures, and living the gospel in preparation for temple blessings have become part of your lives!Janalyn is one. Each year, for the Days of ’47 celebration in the state of Utah, three young women are selected to represent the descendants of the Mormon pioneers. Jana had received national recognition for her outstanding community service and was among the finalists. As she waited on stage for the final selection, she found herself repeating the Young Women theme in her mind. She could feel that peace in her heart. She thought, “I can stand as a witness of God—even here, at this time and in this place.” Her only desire was “to be at the right place at the right time to be the most help for the Lord to build his kingdom.” When it was announced that she had been selected, they asked her to say a few words. She took the microphone and, even though she knew that many in the audience were not Mormons, she bore her testimony. The audience became very quiet as she said, “I fasted. And last night I prayed and told the Lord I would represent him if I received this honor. I’m grateful for this to represent my pioneer heritage.”To you, like Janalyn, who know for yourselves you are daughters of God and are living your lives in harmony with that knowledge, we say, “Carry on. Continue on the paths you walk.” These are your days to lead out in righteousness so that others can safely follow and, along with you, prepare to “come unto Christ.” To you who may question your worth and wonder if God really loves you, these are your days to experiment upon the word of God by obeying his commandments and staying close to him. That feeling of love and acceptance cannot come without obedience.As it says in this little booklet,  “You cannot do wrong and feel right! It is impossible.” ( Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1990, p. 4.) In a spirit of love and concern for you, these standards were outlined by the First Presidency to help you know how to make wise choices and experience the Savior’s love.They’re summarized on this little card. Carry it with you all the time to remind you of the standards to live by.To any of you who know you’re doing wrong things, stop now. Repent. Come back. You can do it. There are those who can help you. Your Heavenly Father loves you and needs you, each one of you.Young women, let your days begin and end with prayer. Read from your scriptures every day. When you pray and talk with your Heavenly Father, when you let him communicate with you through the scriptures and through his Spirit, you will find answers to your prayers—just as Dawn did.When Dawn’s parents received a mission call to Japan, she was given the choice of going with them or staying behind. Going meant leaving her friends, missing her senior year in high school, and, in general, changing many of her future plans. The decision seemed too hard to make. She said, “I spent a lot of time crying and wondering why this should be happening to me.”She fasted and prayed about the decision. It seemed coincidental that they were studying the Book of Mormon in seminary and were talking about Lehi’s family. In the past she had wondered why Laman and Lemuel had such a hard time choosing the right. It bothered her that they were the older brothers and didn’t set a good example. She began to liken herself to the scriptures. She was the oldest child in the family, and going to Japan was like going into the wilderness for her. She would have to leave a lot of important things behind. She said, “I didn’t want to be a Laman or Lemuel. I wanted to obey my Father in Heaven and do his will.” She knew her decision was right when she told her parents she would love to go to Japan with them and it felt so good.At the farewell, Dawn told her friends how much she loved them and would miss them, then said, “I realize that the greatest friend I have is Jesus Christ. I feel of his love every day.”These are your days to look to the scriptures for guidance and to build a closer relationship with the Savior through prayer. He can become best friend. Through him you can know for yourself that you are a daughter of God. He is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. And you are his sister. Think of that!What an exciting time to live—at this great moment in history when the gospel has been restored in its fulness and borders of nations are opening in dramatic ways to allow the gospel message to spread forth!Young women, these are your days to prepare to do your part—to take your place in the great forward movement that is rolling across the earth like a mighty wave. Prayer, scripture study, and obedience to the commandments will prepare you to lead out in righteousness for the gospel of Jesus Christ.As the Young Women general presidency, we call on you to unite in your wards and branches, to love one another, to gain strength from one another. We call on you to stand together and lead out for morality, to speak against the evil forces of the world. Will you stand for truth and righteousness and lead others who will follow if you will show the way? Will you stand as a witness for our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ?Hear the words of President Ardeth G. Kapp.“I can hear a growing chorus of young women’s voices reaching out across the land and across the water and heavenward, responding to the call for righteous young women. I see you standing strong and firm in your faith … filled with the joy of discovery and youth. Caught up in the excitement of doing good deeds and making wise choices. Learning, growing and feeling at home with the beauties of the world. Reaching out and gathering those who may be weaker. Rallying together, gathering strength as the Young Women Values become a part of your life … gathering strength as young women like yourself come together from the mountains, the valleys, the islands of the sea, from arid deserts, and tropical rain forests … wherever the seeds of the gospel have been sown.“Reach out to others in a great bond of sisterhood. Unite in righteousness. Hold your banners high for all to see. Don’t be ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for you have a cause and the cause is glorious!” (Young Women fireside, 10 Nov. 1985.)“Look to this day. Arise in all your splendor, and bear the standards of the world-to-be.” (Maude Osmond Cook, cited in  Nov. 1977, p. 32.)We honor you, we pray for you, we love you. May God bless you. I say this in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The best conversations happen around our kitchen table. Many times we have laughed; cried; shared feelings, hopes, and dreams; sorted out differences; solved the problems of the world; and recognized our strengths and weaknesses into the wee hours of the morning.I suppose that some of you are asking, “What does the Wright family’s kitchen table have to do with this talk?” Nothing! I just wish we all could be surrounding it right now. It certainly would be more comfortable for me. Then we could reflect with one another, share our ideas and feelings, and come to some conclusions together. Since we can’t do that, I invite you to mentally sit at my kitchen table as I share with you some of my thoughts and ideas.I am grateful for the beautiful message we have just heard from the choir. I too feel our Savior’s love. His spirit warms my soul. I have been encircled with his love and recognize the blessings he has given me. It is my desire to follow him as I strive to serve him.One way we can feel Christ’s love is through the example of others as they emulate his life. My grandfather Broadbent was such a man. He taught by example. He never sent his ten children out to work without his working with them, side by side.He showed my father how to dig postholes by making a game of it. They would race with one another to see who could finish the task first. He subscribed to the principle that once a job was begun, it was done well, and it was finished. Not only did he work hard, he was committed to living the gospel well. He accepted the gospel plan without question. When it was time for tithing settlement, the whole family attended and accounted for their increase. He sent his sons on missions when there was no money during the Depression. He loved the Lord and his word. I remember countless times as a teenager visiting him in his home. There I would see him seated in his black leather chair reading the scriptures.He was devoted to his family and loved to have us meet together often. At the end of these family gatherings he would call us together and talk with us. No matter what else he said, he always told us the most important things in life were the family and the gospel. He bore a strong witness of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, told us that he loved us and that Heavenly Father loved us, too. There was no doubt in my mind he was telling us the truth. His legacy has been perpetuated. Although he died before I was married, my children know him as a man who loved the Lord.When I was a young child, my grandmother Richards lived in the upstairs bedroom of our home. Although she was in her nineties and failing in health, her mind was alert, and her hands spent most of the day crocheting trim around flannel baby blankets. Grandma was such a part of our lives that I can’t ever remember her not being in our home. She was very patient. My younger brother, Rich, and I spent many hours taking Grandma “for pretend rides” in her hospital bed. The crank at the foot of the bed could be rotated so that the head or the foot could be raised or lowered. When she was resting, we would come into her room and ask her if we could crank her up or down. Once, when we tired of this game, we ran off to play, leaving Grandma with both her head and her feet in the air in a “V” position.She never scolded us for doing this, nor would she allow our mother to, either. She understood that we were children. She simply picked up the gold bell by her side and rang it until one of our older sisters or parents came to her rescue.Every evening, rocking in her chair, she would call us to her side and ask that we say our prayers with her. She taught us a sweet little verse which we would repeat: “Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take.” Afterward we offered our individual prayers to Heavenly Father. She would listen carefully and tell us that she loved us. Through her example, she taught me about patience. She taught me about prayer. She taught me about love.In Timothy, we are admonished to be an example of the believers. (See  A believer is someone who follows and knows the teachings of Christ not only in his mind but also in his heart and whose actions are a witness of that belief. It isn’t easy to be an example of the believers. We don’t usually wake up in the morning and say, “Today I’m going to be an example of the believers!” Yet we can say, “Today I will be kind and thoughtful, or considerate, or honest, or whatever quality I need to work on.” And  we will try hard all day to make a conscious effort to do so. That we can do!We can live in such a way that people can look to us as their examples.To be a good example of a principle, we must not only understand it but we must live that principle. It should become such a part of our everyday living that without consciously thinking about it, the principle is reflected in the way we live.Children are especially sensitive to the power of pure example. Ten-year-old Andrea stood at the pulpit. Her dark eyes looked around the room. She took a deep breath and began, “I would like to tell you about some people that I love.“I love my older sister, Amy. She is always happy and cheerful. She encourages me when things are hard. I like the way Amy is kind to her friends. She is a good big sister.“My aunt Elaine is a cheerful mother. She wants everyone to be happy. She shows concern and love for others. I want to be just like her.“Grandma always has time for me. She listens when I talk to her. She is kind and loving and always wants to make things fair.”Andrea’s sister, aunt, and grandmother each lived Christlike principles in such a way that Andrea was drawn to them. She felt cherished and loved when she was with them; therefore, she wanted to be like them.I believe we are drawn to those who make us feel good about ourselves when we are with them. The desire to be like them follows naturally.To be true examples of believers, we are first committed inwardly to the principle of Christ that our actions reflect. For example, if we are dedicated to the principle of family prayer, we as parents pray regularly with our family. Hopefully, our children will recognize our devotion and dependence on prayer and pattern their prayers after this example.The song “Love Is Spoken Here” shows the strength of a mother’s prayer as seen by her child.Because of a mother’s example, a child feels at peace while participating in family prayer.It is interesting to note that we choose the examples we follow. We exercise our own agency through our choices. Examples are not forced upon us. We choose which ones we want to emulate and which ones we want to ignore or disregard. The choice is ours, and so is the burden of the consequence.Throughout the beginning pages of the Book of Mormon, we are reminded that Nephi believed the words of his father and used his agency to follow Lehi’s righteous example. Laman and Lemuel thought their father was foolish; they rebelled and murmured against him. They chose not to follow their father’s teachings. The results of Nephi, Laman, and Lemuel’s decisions are evident. Nephi was blessed with the Spirit of the Lord. Laman and Lemuel lived lives of despair. And yet the decision was theirs, to choose for themselves.Our beloved prophet, Ezra Taft Benson, a living example of the believers, said, “The proper example is all-important.  There is no satisfactory substitute.” ( Aug. 1948, p. 494; italics added.)We can always feel secure in looking to Christ as our perfect example. He showed us by his own life not only what we should do, but also what we are to become. “Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am.” Jesus resisted temptations. He treated all equally. He was patient in his teaching yet bold in his condemnation of evil. He forgave the repentant, healed the sick, and served without ceasing.Among the Nephites, Christ taught many beautiful gospel principles. He instructed them to follow the commandments so they could be happy. He commanded them not to argue or fight but love one another. He taught them how to pray and said, “Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you.” Above all, Jesus was the perfect example of love. “A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you. …” One Sunday I was substituting in a Primary class of particularly rambunctious five-year-olds. The lesson was about love. We began by singing the song “Jesus Said Love Everyone.”Afterward I commented, “Jesus loves everyone, and we must do that, too.”Robbie challenged me. “Oh, no, he doesn’t love everyone—he doesn’t love the bad people!”“Yes, Robbie, he loves everyone.”“He doesn’t love the robbers.”“Even the robbers.”Robbie thought a minute and said, “I know some people he didn’t love—he didn’t love the men who killed him!”At that point I told Robbie about the Crucifixion.“When Jesus hung on the cross,” Robbie interrupted me, “did they really put nails in his hands and feet?”“Yes.”“Oh, that must have hurt.”“Yes, it did. Even after that happened, as Jesus hung on the cross in great pain, he said, ‘Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.’  Jesus was speaking about the men who had placed him on the cross. He asked Heavenly Father to forgive them. Yes, Robbie, Jesus even loved these people, and he forgave them.”Robbie looked at me, furrowed his brow, and said, “I’m going to ask my dad if Jesus really did say that.”After class was over, I was walking into sacrament meeting with my family, and I felt a tug on my dress. It was Robbie.“Sister Wright, my dad says you’re right.”The tenderness of this experience was that Robbie went from challenging the idea that Jesus could love everyone to a sweet trust of Christ’s unconditional love.Each of us can feel our Savior’s love through the righteous example of others. We, too, can strive to live in such a way that we can be examples of the believers. I testify that Jesus, our Savior, is the Christ, our perfect example, in his name, amen.