“Behold, now is the time and the day of your salvation. … This life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; … the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.” These words are as applicable today as when expressed by Amulek centuries ago.Many years ago I clipped an article out of a newspaper. It tells about an elevator boy who was whistling a merry tune on his way up on the elevator one morning. “Why so happy?” a grim-faced, scowling rider asked him.The boy replied, “I’ve never lived this day before.”The writer of the article comments: “This boy was wiser than his years. The only life we can live is today. Yesterday is behind us. However golden the hours, they cannot be lived again, but only remembered. Tomorrow is before us, and however sweet its expectations, the clock must take its patient course before we can test our hope against reality. We can live no more than one day at a time.” (Roy Pearson, )Elder Richard L. Evans shared this meaningful thought in “The Spoken Word”: “It sometimes seems that we live as if we wonder when life is going to begin. It isn’t always clear just what we are waiting for, but some of us sometimes persist in waiting so long that life slips by—finding us still waiting for something that has been going on all the time. … This is the life in which the work of this life is to be done. Today is as much a part of eternity as any day a thousand years ago or as will be any day a thousand years hence. This is it, whether we are thrilled or disappointed, busy or bored! This is life, and it is passing.” ( Jan. 1967, p. 65.)Today  a day of eternity. I hope each day we are thankful for life, for knowing that we are sons and daughters of God and that the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ is upon the earth. I hope we will have a desire and a determination to make each day a good day.How can we do this? Here are some suggestions. I encourage you to add others.Each day let us nourish our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let us follow the inspired message from the Lord’s living prophet, Ezra Taft Benson to read daily from the Book of Mormon and make a study of this book a lifetime pursuit. ( May 1988, p. 51.) We can go to our Father in Heaven in individual prayer. We can kneel each day as a family. How very important it is that we do this. As we attend our meetings on the Sabbath and partake of the sacrament worthily, we can have our Father’s Spirit with us every day.Let us live daily the great saving principle of repentance. We will become more humble and teachable.Each day will be a good day if we will think of the Savior and make Him the center of our lives, for He is “the light, and the life, and the truth of the world.”  Following the Savior will help us to be honest. I would like to tell you about a twelve-year-old boy in the Philippines who is following the Savior.Julius had gone to school without eating any breakfast, and during class his stomach began to make funny sounds. During recess he hurried to a nearby barbecue stand. He took two sticks of meat, ate the food, and went back to class.When he returned, he discovered he had not given the pesos for the food. Without hesitation he ran back and paid for his snack. When he arrived back at the classroom, he found a very angry teacher. He had forgotten to ask permission to leave. She wanted to know what he had been doing. He told her everything. Then she put her arm on his shoulder and, facing the class, said, “Class, I want you to be honest like Julius.” She asked him why he returned the money when he could have kept it.He answered, “Because I believe in being honest.”“What is your religion?” she wanted to know.Without hesitation, he said, “I am a Mormon.”“Oh,” she responded, “no wonder.”Julius is making each day a good day by always being honest.Following the Savior will help us to be morally clean. We will respect our bodies and not tamper with drugs, alcohol, or pornography or in any way destroy the great miracle of life which the Lord has given to each of us.Recently I listened to the words of a stalwart young teenager who told about how some young people in his school have not kept the standards of the Church and have used some of the destructive substances we have been warned against. Friends who know he is a Mormon have asked him why he doesn’t partake of these harmful things. He explained: “I am happy to know that I have not disappointed the Lord and dishonored the priesthood he has given me. Remember, you can lie to yourself, and you can lie to others, but you can never lie to the Lord. He knows what you are doing. … To help us along the way, a good guideline is to imagine that Jesus is right beside you all the time. Ask yourself, ‘Would Jesus be doing this?’ or ‘Would He get into this situation?’” (talk given by Brandon Williams, Alamosa Colorado Stake conference, 25 Aug. 1991.)As the Savior becomes the center of our lives, we will be more loving and giving. He has taught by precept and example that if we would truly find ourselves, we must first lose ourselves in serving and helping others.I believe one of the best ways to make each day a good one is to help build the kingdom of God. What a blessing it is for each of us to be leaders in righteousness. President Spencer W. Kimball has said, “Membership in the Church is a call to leadership.” Let us be good leaders in our homes (this means both children and parents), leaders in our neighborhoods, our schools, our communities, and the Church.Each day can be richer and more meaningful if we can be happy with ourselves. Some of the most undesirable feelings are those of envying, coveting, and wishing that we were someone else. We should be grateful for who we are and what we are, and for the talents we have been given. We should be supportive of and grateful for the talents of others, always looking for those divine qualities which are in every person we meet. It is important that we be ourselves and like ourselves. Someone has said, “A bee may not be an eagle, but it can sure make honey!”Here is another suggestion: Don’t worry about those things which you cannot change. If something can be done, do it. If nothing can be done, don’t worry about it. Several years ago, I read an article written about Elder LeGrand Richards. He had just turned age ninety-three. Someone asked him what his secret was for living such a long, happy, and useful life. He said, “I have a verse that has been part of my philosophy throughout my life. Here it is:I have one more suggestion. I share this counsel from President Ezra Taft Benson: “If we want to keep the Spirit, we must work. There is no greater exhilaration or satisfaction than to know, after a hard day of work, that we have done our best. … Ours is a gospel of work—purposeful, unselfish and rendered in the spirit of the true love of Christ.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, pp. 483–84.)Each day we live is a day of eternity.Let us make each day a good day byI pray, with Alma, that each day we would “humble [our]selves before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that [we] may not be tempted above that which [we] can bear, and thus be led by the Holy Spirit, becoming humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of love and all long-suffering;“Having faith on the Lord; having a hope that [we] shall receive eternal life; having the love of God always in [our] hearts, that [we] may be lifted up at the last day and enter into his rest.” Today, my heart is full of gratitude as my service as a Seventy comes to a close.I am grateful for my good wife, Isabel, who has so lovingly and unselfishly served by my side and whose example has shown me how to make each day a good one. I express thanks to our children and their eternal companions and our grandchildren for their support, steadfastness, and righteousness.I have learned from the examples of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve the meaning of discipleship to the Savior.With the Quorums of the Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric, I have shared the joy of brotherhood.To all the members and missionaries with whom I have been privileged to serve in Asia, the Philippines, Micronesia/Guam, Great Britain, and the Southwest Area of the United States, I say thank you. You are examples of making every day a good day.Above all, I express my gratitude and love to my Savior, Jesus Christ. He is the life, light, and truth of the world. I leave my witness that He is our Savior and Redeemer. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My brethren and sisters, on this bright and beautiful day, I should like to address the subject of light. The dictionary defines light as something that makes vision possible or something that enlightens or informs.Two types of light are physical light and spiritual light. especially natural light, affects the moods of people. When summer’s light begins to fade, days grow shorter, and the winter season looms darkly ahead, natural light becomes a more precious commodity, especially to people who live in extreme northern climates. There, where darkness reigns for up to three months a year and then summer blooms into three months of constant daylight, moods swing with the seasons.Light does have a profound effect on human mood and behavior. Mounting evidence indicates that people who are feeling a little down and need a lift can get it by going outside in daylight. Walking in the light is a natural mood booster. Many who simply walk for half an hour or more during the daylight hours receive a distinct benefit. (See  Jan./Feb. 1989, pp. 28–30.)Scientists are not entirely certain which wavelengths cause light’s mood-boosting effects. Researchers believe that these effects are traceable to light taken in  and not through the skin.A second medical use of light is light therapy for treating some cancers. Certain chemicals combined with light can destroy cancer cells. Research is under way to identify the best source of light and to determine how to direct it to body areas. (See  Canadian ed., Nov. 1989.)Shifting from these brief remarks about physical light, I should like to consider a kind of light that has infinitely greater power and effect. I speak of  It comes from God and his gospel. In the scriptures, we find reference to a relationship between the physical light of the sun and spiritual light. We read in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 88, of “the light of truth;“Which truth shineth. This is the light of Christ. As also he is in the sun, and the light of the sun, and the power thereof by which it was made. …“And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings;“Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space—“The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed.” This earth will be a celestial sphere, like a sea of glass and fire [see   The prophet Brigham Young said: “It will not then be an opaque body as it now is, but it will be like the stars of the firmament, full of light and glory: it will be a  John compared it, in its celestialized state, to a sea of glass.” ( 7:163; italics added.)In section 88 we read:“And again, verily I say unto you, the earth abideth the law of a celestial kingdom, for it filleth the measure of its creation, and transgresseth not the law—“Wherefore, it shall be sanctified; yea, notwithstanding it shall die, it shall be quickened again, and shall abide the power by which it is quickened, and the righteous shall inherit it.” In section 84:“For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ.“And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.” This word  appears 535 times in the scriptures.Light has a relationship to the Son of God: “And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things.”  Moroni said: “And now, my brethren, seeing that ye know  by which ye may judge,  is the  see that ye do not judge wrongfully; for with that same judgment which ye judge ye shall also be judged.”  italics added.)John said: “Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying,  he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.”  italics added.) Elder Bruce R. McConkie has written:“1. Through the Light of Christ he governs and controls the universe and gives life to all that therein is.“2. By this same immensity-filling light—and to certain faithful ones, by the power of the Holy Ghost!—he enlightens the mind and quickens the understanding.“3. By his own upright, sinless, and perfect course, in [premortal life], in mortality, and in resurrected glory, he sets a perfect example and is able to say to all men: ‘Follow thou me.’”  ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1978, p. 208.)In the First Vision,  released the boy Joseph from oppressive darkness. [see How does light enter into us? How do we receive it? “But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!” Commenting on this passage, Elder Bruce R. McConkie states: “Christ is the light; the gospel is the light; the plan of salvation is the light; ‘that which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.’ As the light of the sun enters the body  so the light of heaven—the light of the Spirit which illuminates our souls—enters through our spiritual eyes.” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1980, 2:153; italics added.)President Joseph F. Smith said:“One fault to be avoided by the Saints, young and old, is the tendency to live on  with their own hidden under a bushel; to permit the savor of their salt of knowledge to be lost; and the light within them to be reflected, rather than original. …“Men and women should become settled in the truth, and  depending upon no person for borrowed or reflected light, but trusting only upon the Holy Spirit, who is ever the same, shining forever and testifying to the individual and the priesthood, who live in harmony with the laws of the gospel, of the glory and the will of the Father. They will then have light everlasting which cannot be obscured. By its shining in their lives, they shall cause others to glorify God; and by their well-doing put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, and show forth the praises of him who hath called them out of darkness into his marvelous light.” ( 5th ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1939, pp. 87–88; italics added.)Light persuades us to do good; it leads us to Christ. It led my family as it has led yours, and it can and will lead all to him.Archibald Stewart and his wife, Esther Lyle, are my great-great-grandparents. The Stewart family had learned to face persecution and hardship. Their ancestors had been forced to flee from Scotland to Northern Ireland, where they had been promised protection. But instead of finding peace, they again became victims of persecution at the hands of the Irish Greens. Independence and strong conviction were part of their heritage.The Stewart family characteristics of love and devotion and a deep religious faith made them receptive to the gospel. When the Mormon missionaries came to the Stewart house, Elizabeth, the third child, immediately felt the truthfulness of their message. She began to study and search for more assurance of the things she felt within. Her feelings and study stirred an immediate response in her old granny, who was the matriarch of the Stewart household. Elizabeth spent many hours telling her granny about the new prophet of God, Joseph Smith, who had brought back to earth the simple, direct message that Christ was alive and had appeared to man. Elizabeth felt a testimony burning within and asked permission to be baptized. Because of the unpopularity of the Mormons, her parents objected. Elizabeth’s granny came to her rescue. “Let the child alone,” she said. “I have read all her books, and I do believe the child is right.”As Elizabeth left her home to go to her baptism, her granny was at her side. The two walked to the river, where the elders had broken a hole in the ice that wintry March day. When the elders came toward Elizabeth to baptize her, her granny stepped up and said, “Watch your manners, child; never step in front of your elders.”The elders baptized Granny in her street clothes; she even had on her little white cap. She had brought no extra clothes, so she walked home in her wet, frozen clothes. She did not take cold even though she did not change her clothes until the other family members had gone to bed. She said nothing about her baptism to the family but went about her usual tasks as if nothing had happened. After the others had gone to bed, she hung her clothing around the fireplace. In the morning when Archibald got up, he saw the clothes drying. He began to joke with the others about Granny having been dipped in the river along with Elizabeth. Granny listened to their fun and then said: “Archibald, if you don’t want people to hear, stop shouting so loudly. You can’t talk about Granny now, for she can hear better than any of you.”Granny had been virtually deaf for twenty years, but a miracle had restored her hearing at the time she was baptized. From that day until her death, she could hear distinctly. Archibald said laughingly that she heard too much.Most of the family members soon were baptized, in 1841.The light of the gospel illuminates the path of life to eternity that otherwise would be dark and nondirecting.We can be like a mirror and direct light even into dark places. We are not the sources of light; nevertheless, through us light can be reflected to others.I must return and report my stewardship and  in the heavens when I leave this mortal life. Therefore, I testify with no hesitancy that God lives. Jesus is his holy son, the one through whom we gain salvation. This is his Church and kingdom, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.