The other day, as I watched the videotape  my eyes moistened in instant tenderness as each new missionary opened and read aloud with his family the official call to a full-time mission, signed by the President of the Church. I recalled my own mission call to Argentina. After sharing the excitement of my call with my parents, I sought out my mentor, who was not a member of the Church, a former U.S. senator, to share the news of my call with him. He was not impressed and let me know in no uncertain terms that if I insisted on serving a mission, upon my return all the good jobs would be taken and I would never amount to anything. I was disappointed, but realized that he saw my future only as the world perceives.Years later I realized that my mission had prioritized my life toward family, service, and gospel principles. As an added bonus, I was far ahead of most of my former classmates in worldly achievements.Somehow I understood even then that the call to full-time service in the Church is an unchanging, eternal miracle. Later I learned it is unique, and the call drives the Lord’s church, ever vitalizing and strengthening it, every minute of the day.The call to missionary service rarely comes when it is convenient or easy to serve. I never tire of hearing the testimony of President Ezra Taft Benson, of his prompt acceptance of the call to serve a full-time mission, by letter from the living prophet of that time. The return address of the letter was simply “Box B,” Salt Lake City.Married men were called to serve full-time missions even into this century. On the wall of my parents’ bedroom, there hung a framed, faded newspaper clipping with a photograph of my father in the high collar and bowler hat of his time. “Married two and a half years and never said a word to each other” was the caption. He left for the Australia Mission shortly after his wedding and had no verbal communication with my mother until he returned.Among early converts who served missions in their mature years, leaving their families to do so, was my great-grandfather Snow, who received a mission call to England and served well.Yes, the call is an eternal miracle, never changing.Joseph Smith, like Moses, Abraham, Jacob, and other prophets before him, was called by name by the Lord. He related, “One of them spake unto me,  and said, pointing to the other—”  italics added.)Shortly after he was called to restore the original Church, a small handful of priesthood holders, many of them heads of families, received calls to go into the mission field in the United States and the world to bring thousands unto Christ. From this effort came a solid and diversified base for the restored Church.The Prophet did not ask any of those called if they wanted to serve, or if it was convenient. Each received an official call as our Heavenly Father directed. They believed the call was from the Lord and that “whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same.” Mission calls are rarely made at a convenient time. When my call came to full-time service as mission president to the nations of Uruguay and Paraguay, there were commitments of civic and business nature. All were overcome miraculously. The call was accepted. As a member of the Seventy, after more than five years I can still, as the hymn says, scarcely take it in. (See  1985, no. 86.) There is the same feeling of awe and humility today in the call as there was the day we were called. Let me pay a tribute to Sister Russell. She shares this awe with me and has always been valiant in her love of Jesus Christ.As a church, we have been fairly obedient in accepting calls from our Heavenly Father, believing as we do that the call from him takes precedence over all others; witness the army of 45,000 full-time missionaries in several hundred missions, worldwide.Many young men and women decide at an early age to serve missions if called. Some follow family tradition. Others are recent converts who accept the call to serve full-time missions. They, in turn, set a pattern and tradition for future generations.In many wards and stakes, the call is held to be so sacred that every young man and many young women accept the call to serve full-time missions. In others, the great majority of young men accept mission calls. These are true missionary wards and stakes. The only question their future missionaries ask is,  shall I receive the call to serve a full-time mission? and not  I should or should not serve.In several Saturday evening sessions of stake conferences in the United States, Mexico, and Central America, I have asked this question, “Please indicate by the raised hand if you would do  our Heavenly Father asks you to do, no matter what, if you  that the Lord himself were asking you to do it.” A forest of hands shot up.If it is true, and it  true, that all faithful members of the Church will do whatever our Heavenly Father asks them to do, perhaps the calls should be even more bold and direct. I have noticed that bishops the world over sometimes ask this kind of question of future missionaries: “John, have you thought about a mission?” The young man might say to himself, Whether it be to a young man, young woman, or married couple, the next question by the bishop often is, “Would you like to serve a mission?” This may be all right, but remember, nobody asked any of the early missionaries of the Church whether they would like to serve, or if it would be convenient.I thrilled at recently observing a good bishop arrange an appointment with a future missionary, a faithful young man, and in the ensuing interview get to know him and share the Spirit with him. He then asked if the young man would be willing to do whatsoever the Lord asked, then stated words to this effect: “In prayer my counselors and I have gone to our Heavenly Father, and he has indicated to us that you are to serve a full-time mission. What do you say to your Heavenly Father?” The response was positive. Then the bishop talked to the future missionary about what to do with his new car, his girlfriend, his education—questions that must be resolved before he is called.At present, less than half our faithful young men from the United States and Canada serve missions; in the rest of the world one or two of ten are called. Once we, as leaders and parents, embrace the eternal miracle of the call, in all its force and magnificence, untold thousands more will serve full-time missions.Our Heavenly Father might not call us by name, but his called and ordained servants will call us to serve for a period—by name, and in  name and by  inspiration and revelation. May we all have a deeper insight into the divine nature and meaning of the call, this great eternal miracle, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.This conference brings to an end one of the most rewarding and enjoyable experiences my sweet companion and I have ever shared together and for which I desire to express my most profound gratitude. Most of our time was spent among the wonderful people of Latin America, whom we came to love so deeply, and I desire to make reference to a miracle which occurred among their ancestors many years ago which seems to be one of the greatest events in the history of the world; it was the miracle Christ wrought in transforming their societies from much sin and suffering to total righteousness and happiness.It will be remembered that for six hundred years prior to the advent of the Savior, the Nephite and Lamanite races had been almost constantly at war one with another. Although there were periods of peace and prosperity, upon becoming wealthy the people became proud and wicked, were punished, and the process would start again. (See  These cycles of human folly were relatively short and seemed to occur every five or ten years.However, when the Lord appeared, he established one unified society in which there was no sin, no crime, and no wars. These conditions continued to prevail in some areas for around three hundred years. The record describes the affairs of the people thus:“And … there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people.“And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.” What would one not give to live in a society like that? As we know, the people eventually returned to their evil ways and the Nephites became so proud and wicked they had to be destroyed. But how were those races able to live as a celestial society for so long? We might also ask, How will it be possible during the Millennium for the people to remain righteous for almost a thousand years? The answer seems to be the same in both cases, and I believe that it consists in this: Parents teaching their children the gospel, and doing so especially during that early period of their lives when they cannot be tempted.Evidence that this was so among the Nephites and Lamanites is found in a miracle the Lord performed with respect to their little children. He separated the children from their parents, taught them greater things than he had taught the multitude, and then the children taught these greater things to their fathers. (See  Does not this event help us to understand the miraculous change in that society?Let us assume that the Lord, after having demonstrated the superior spiritual capabilities of children, instructed the parents to follow his example and that they did so. Would not the children, having been taught properly, have continued to live righteously after reaching maturity; and in the process of training them, would not the parents have become equally humble and righteous? How, otherwise, can we explain this astounding historical event?With respect to the Millennium, the Lord has given this information regarding the parents who will live in that society:“And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation.” Obviously, the parents who will inherit the earth will be those who have learned to raise their children without sin unto salvation.Mormon, who wrote the account of the miracle among the Nephite and Lamanite children, wanted to give us more details of the event, but the Lord forbade it, saying, “I will try the faith of my people.” (See  Does that miracle try our faith? It is not difficult to believe that Christ taught profound gospel truths to sinless children whose spiritual powers as developed in the pre-earth life were equal to or superior to those of their parents. Our test of faith seems to be in believing our children of today are as able to understand spiritual truths as were the Nephite and Lamanite children of yore, and in putting this belief into practice. Indeed, the Lord has commanded members of the Church of these latter days to do this very thing. Let us consider three revelations given in the early days of the Church which seem to bear this out.In Doctrine and Covenants section 29, the Lord states that “little children … cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me; … that great things may be required at the hand of their fathers.”  What are these “great things” required of fathers during the time when their children cannot be tempted?Doctrine and Covenants section 68, suggests an answer: In that revelation the Lord specifically commands parents in Zion to teach their children to understand doctrine when eight years of age and states that if this is not done, “the sin be upon the heads of the parents.” In another revelation given in May 1833, the Lord chastised each of the leading brethren of the Church for having failed to bring up their children in light and truth and otherwise set their homes in order. (See  Although no specific time period during which this should be done is mentioned, at the time the revelation was given, all four of the brethren reprimanded were relatively young fathers with small children in their homes.In this revelation the Lord points out that children in their infant state are innocent before God but that Satan takes away light and truth from them because of disobedience and the tradition of their fathers. To prevent this, he commands parents to bring up their children in light and truth. (See Although the Lord chastised the leading brethren, and indeed all parents in Zion, for parental delinquency, he indicated that repentance is possible. But he also said that if we did not repent, we would be removed out of our place. (See Not only do the scriptures instruct us on when teaching is best done (see   but also on what should and should not be taught (see   and who should and should not do the teaching (see  The early teaching of children by parents offers the solution to many problems which otherwise may afflict our lives. Is not this the ounce of prevention which will eliminate the need for many pounds of cure with respect to our youth? Is there a better way to create and promote marital harmony than for a husband and wife to fully cooperate in carrying out this, their most important stewardship in time or eternity? What could bring greater satisfaction and meaning into the lives of grandparents or others than to establish the family tradition of training children during their years of innocence? And finally, how can we more easily overcome pride than by teaching children, whose humility we must emulate in order to enter the kingdom of heaven? The proper teaching of children is truly one of the most essential parts of God’s plan for our happiness.When our Heavenly Father sends one of his spirit children into a home, it is as if he says to the parents: “John, Mary, here is my most priceless possession—the soul of a little child. As you can see, he is helpless and completely dependent upon you even for life itself. You are now given the privilege of molding his life as you think best. Please teach him that I am his Father and that Jesus is his Savior and that we want him and you to return and live with us when mortality is over. Remember that I am always available to guide you in rearing this child of ours if you will but seek my help. I hope you will do so often. Your Heavenly Father.”In a marvelous discourse given to the fathers in Israel, President Benson reminded us that our most important calling in time and eternity is that of husband and father. I go now to spend my full time in the Andersen area of the Church, a calling from which I pray I shall never be released.It is my prayer that each of us will recognize and fulfill well our sacred duty of bringing up children in light and truth, that we may merit eternal life, the greatest of all the gifts of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.