Through much experience, I know that the Lord lives, that he loves me, and that he is always close to me, and thus I am able to gratefully testify that Jesus Christ is the basis of my life. Since I have accepted him, I know that we will find true happiness and peace if we trust in his teachings and always strive to follow him. I know that he invites all people to feel this testimony in their hearts.But in order to understand his ways, we have to prepare ourselves. We read in Moroni that only the meek and the truly humble are pleasing before God. (See  This message is particularly important for us today, because love is beginning to wax cold. We all feel it; the struggle for a testimony, for our marriages and families, and for truth, justice, and chastity is becoming more intense.Some of us are involved in that struggle and experience disappointment, loss of courage and strength, desperation, and loneliness. Many lose direction, many stand still, many go back, many are just standing there. How important it is to take right then and there the hand that is stretched out and help to find the path again through meekness, humility, and charity—to take by the hand and to look out for each other and to tell them, “You are important; you too are a child of God.” We are on the same path. Let us follow it together. The Lord expects of us to give and to take and to serve each other, not because it is our duty but because we do it out of love—so that his love for all of us, in and outside of the Church, will become alive, and we can feel it and be strong in the unity of a great sisterhood.May the Lord bless us to achieve this. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Several years ago, a young man was killed in a tragic car accident. We had all been so excited as we had watched him return to church and, with the help of his family, friends, and a caring bishop, prepare himself to go on a mission. He was to be ordained an elder at our coming stake conference. But now he was gone.My husband and I took off our shoes as we entered the family home where the young man’s body lay. His mother sat beside him on the floor. We waited with others to offer our support and love to her. But as my turn came and we held each other close, shedding tears together, she taught me a great lesson. She urged me to walk beside my husband, to strengthen my family, and to always love them. This she did with each one there, giving of her own strength to those gathered there to strengthen her!This great Maori woman understood where her son had gone. She knew that families can be eternal. So, with her son in the Lord’s care, she turned her attention to her remaining family and friends to give them understanding and courage to draw their families together in love and righteousness.We live in perilous times, when all that is good and moral is questioned, and Satan delights in the instability of the family unit. As Latter-day Saint women, we know the value of being a daughter, a sister, a wife, and a mother. We know the strength that can be gained through family prayer and scripture study, through home evenings, and through quiet times spent together listening and feeling loved. These are not instant solutions to life’s problems, but slowly and surely they send down and strengthen the roots that will hold us firm when challenges come.Let us teach our families “to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord”  that we might stand together through time and throughout all eternity. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.