Several years ago, a young man was killed in a tragic car accident. We had all been so excited as we had watched him return to church and, with the help of his family, friends, and a caring bishop, prepare himself to go on a mission. He was to be ordained an elder at our coming stake conference. But now he was gone.My husband and I took off our shoes as we entered the family home where the young man’s body lay. His mother sat beside him on the floor. We waited with others to offer our support and love to her. But as my turn came and we held each other close, shedding tears together, she taught me a great lesson. She urged me to walk beside my husband, to strengthen my family, and to always love them. This she did with each one there, giving of her own strength to those gathered there to strengthen her!This great Maori woman understood where her son had gone. She knew that families can be eternal. So, with her son in the Lord’s care, she turned her attention to her remaining family and friends to give them understanding and courage to draw their families together in love and righteousness.We live in perilous times, when all that is good and moral is questioned, and Satan delights in the instability of the family unit. As Latter-day Saint women, we know the value of being a daughter, a sister, a wife, and a mother. We know the strength that can be gained through family prayer and scripture study, through home evenings, and through quiet times spent together listening and feeling loved. These are not instant solutions to life’s problems, but slowly and surely they send down and strengthen the roots that will hold us firm when challenges come.Let us teach our families “to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord”  that we might stand together through time and throughout all eternity. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.You would remember the scripture that says, “Clothe yourselves with the bond of charity.”  I understand it is one of the fundamental characteristics of the gospel of Jesus Christ to exercise charity and develop it through Christian service.President Kimball said, “Charity is like flowers.” Twenty years ago, I had an interest in oriental flower arrangement. It takes a lot of time and talent to become an instructor of its techniques.About ten years ago, I received an instructor’s license. I wanted to share my skill and all of my knowledge with the sisters in the Church. Since then, I have taught the sisters flower arrangement in the church every Friday as one of our Relief Society activities. We have developed our skill, and I hoped the sisters might develop a love for flower arrangement as I did.Whenever I taught the sisters, I asked them to learn one of their favorite scriptures by heart and present it in the meeting. Through these classes, the sisters developed good friendship to each other. Harmony is learned and cooperation is cultivated among our sisters through flower arrangement. Some of them have now become instructors, and the floral design at the Seoul Korea Temple is a beautiful work of one of these sisters.While we make lovely arrangements by gathering flowers one by one from the flowers scattered on the table, we come to think of less-active members scattered throughout the world and wonder how to gather them together. Just as we can combine each scattered flower into a beautiful flower arrangement, we can gather those scattered, less-active members into our wards and branches. It would be a magnificent art displayed by our sisters for our Heavenly Father.I’ve been grateful for the past thirty-eight years in which I have had the privilege to develop and exercise charity, which is given by Heavenly Father, through a variety of service as a member of this true Church. I appreciate him for using one of his daughters as a small tool through the flower arrangement. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.