It is a humbling experience to occupy this podium where truths of the Restoration have been taught by prophets and Apostles both past and present. I am grateful for this call to serve and have come to admire and love the Brethren with whom I associate.I am indebted to a wonderful and able mother and a truly extraordinary wife, companion, and mother to our seven sons. I echo a sentiment previously expressed by Elder Scott—Margaret excels me in every worthwhile quality. I love her very much.Children can provide wonderful and often humorous insights into life. We have in our family identical ten-year-old twin sons. In some circumstances they are practically impossible to tell apart.Recently we moved and found ourselves in new surroundings. Several days later I was talking to Aaron, one of the twins, and inquired about the big bump he had on his forehead. He described it this way. “Well, Dad, Lincoln [who is his older brother] was chasing me down the hall. I ran around the corner, and I saw my twin brother, Adam. Now, I knew I could outrun Adam, so I just kept running.” It turns out he ran into a full-length mirror!Life provides for each of us a full-length, wide-screen panorama of opportunities to run into ourselves. The eminent philosopher Pogo expressed it this way: “We have met the enemy, and he is us!” (Walt Kelly.)In more eloquent terms, Moroni was told by the Lord: “And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness … ; for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make weak things become strong unto them.” As we look into the mirror at the accumulation of bumps and bruises that evidence our weaknesses, may we be reminded that there are two great stabilizing forces that can anchor our souls.The first is illustrated by an experience of several months ago. A stake president and I took the opportunity to visit a young woman in her home near Atlanta, Georgia. She was twenty-nine years old; her husband had been killed in a car accident; she was living in a modest apartment with her two young children. I suppose we expected to find her upset and discouraged at having received a “bump” not of her own making. On the contrary, she was cheerful; she was calm; she was very gracious. She thanked us for coming and then said, as nearly as I can recall: “Brethren, I want you to know I believe in the plan of redemption. I am grateful to my Savior for the promise of a glorious resurrection with my husband. I am grateful for His redeeming sacrifice.” Then, putting her arms around her two children, she said, “Our faith in Jesus Christ will see us through.”We came expecting to comfort and strengthen, and we left humbled, buoyed, and blessed by her wonderful expression of faith.Indeed we walk by faith—faith in the plan of redemption, faith in the role of Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer, faith that as the Son of God, he has the power to save, to forgive, to lift us up. Because of our faith, we repent, we keep his commandments, we seek his restored Church and authorized priesthood. We listen to and follow the words of his prophets and Apostles spoken from this and other pulpits.When we exercise our faith in him, then Christ will help us overcome our weaknesses and the resulting “bumps and bruises.”To illustrate the second great stabilizing force, I would relate another experience. Some years ago, I was serving as a young bishop. We were holding a ward social around a swimming pool near the apartment where most of the ward members lived. I was introduced to a new member of the ward—a young woman in her twenties by the name of Carol. Carol had been afflicted with cerebral palsy since infancy. She walked with great difficulty; her hands were crippled. Her kind and dear face was also affected, as was her speech. But as I would come to understand, to know Carol was to love her.I had only to wait a few minutes to begin learning the great lesson she would teach. While we were talking, we watched a tall, handsome, dark-haired, very athletic young man dive off the diving board and seem to injure himself slightly. He got out of the pool, holding his neck, and went and sat under a tree. I watched as Carol struggled to prepare a plate of food and with great difficulty delivered it to him—a guileless act of service, of “good works.” Carol’s good works became a legend. She cared for the sick; she took food to the hungry; she drove people places (an experience that delivered you pale and shaken, but always in one piece); she comforted; she lifted; she blessed.I walked with her one day on the sidewalk that passed through the apartment complex where she lived. From the windows, from the balconies, from the porches came cries of “Hi, Carol!” “How are you doing, Carol?” “Come up and see us, Carol.” And occasionally someone would say, “Oh, hi, Bishop.” It was clear that Carol was loved and greatly accepted through her wonderful good works.My most vivid recollection of Carol occurred in the spring of that year. The ward had agreed to participate in the stake five-kilometer fun run—an oxymoronic term, to be sure. Carol wanted to be with the rest of the ward members, but we didn’t see how it would be possible. For her, just walking was a great difficulty. Nevertheless, she was determined. She struggled and trained each day to increase her endurance.The race finished in the stadium. Two or three hundred of us were in the stands by the finish line, drinking juice and catching our breath. And then we remembered Carol—she was left somewhere back on the course. As we ran out the entrance to the stadium, she came into view, struggling to breathe, barely able to walk, but determined to finish. As she started around the track toward the finish line, a wonderful thing happened. Suddenly the track was lined on both sides with hundreds of cheering friends. Others were running alongside to support and hold her up. Carol “of great good works” had finished the race.One day each of us will cross the finish line. Will it likewise be to the cheers and encouragement of those we have loved and served? Hopefully it will be to the approbation of our Savior, who because of our faith and our good works, will say, “Well done, thou good and faithful servant.” I add my witness to the many that have been borne from this pulpit. I know God lives. Jesus Christ is his Son—our Savior and our Redeemer. He has the power to lift us up if we will come unto him in faith, with good works, and with all of our hearts. I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.I feel deeply humble, and I sincerely pray for the Spirit and the support from the Lord.From the book of 3 Nephi we read: “Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I have been called of him to declare his word among his people, that they might have everlasting life.” I came from Korea, traveling halfway around the world to bear my testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Korea has experienced wars. During my lifetime I have seen many tragic things, sadness and changes. Yet I have also witnessed many miracles. My country of Korea is where I was born and where I have lived all my life. It is where my beloved ancestors, including my dear father and mother and the parents of my grandparents, are buried.Four of our five children are in Korea now. Many of our close friends and our brothers and sisters and their families are there also.I have never lived outside Korea until last August, when I was called to Salt Lake City, called by the Lord to declare His words among His people.Yet the First Presidency counseled me to become a General Authority, a disciple of the Lord, first, above all things.Before I’ve gone too far, let me say, is a unique Korean honorific expression of gratitude.I am grateful to Heavenly Father for His love and special blessings in my life. During the desperate times of difficulties and throughout the war, I wandered to the very edge of my life and felt most helpless. There was no hope and no future for me. I thought I had been completely thrown out and left out by everything.Heavenly Father, through my loving parents, worked out miracles for me. I was able to stand up and move forward.The shelters and food were provided here and there. It wasn’t much, but enough for me to keep going and ultimately to join with you today in this historic great Tabernacle, surrounded by the chosen leaders of the Lord’s Church.Thus, I say,  to my Heavenly Father.I am grateful for my good parents and for their special love and wonderful influence on my life. I am also deeply grateful to Dr. Kim Ho Jik, the first Korean Latter-day Saint, the most humble and unselfish person I have ever known. This great man led the handful of poverty-stricken young Korean Saints during the time of tribulation to lay the foundation of the work of the Lord in the land of morning calm, Korea, by preparing those seemingly helpless individuals to learn the gospel of Jesus Christ and to stand firm for the cause of the Lord.His love of God and his love for me formulated many miracles in my life.I set my goal to become a good member of the Church, as he was—a good father, a good husband, and even a good translator, as he was.I know that today he and my father are looking down and smiling at me from the spirit world.I am grateful for you, my brothers and sisters. One of you taught me the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and baptized me into the kingdom. The love you had moved me to accept the gospel to begin with. Then many great leaders of the Church came over to teach and train us all these years.President Lee, President Kimball, President Benson, President Hinckley, President Monson, and many other great leaders came to help us and change us, with great love of the Lord.In Korea, President Hinckley wept many times, and we all felt the love he had for the Lord and for the poor people in the Orient. When we left our home in Korea last fall, many of our brothers and sisters came to KimPo Airport to say good-bye to us. Four of our children were also among the people, half lost and half crying. They were so proud of their parents. On that particular day, my wife and I stood on the side of the departure lounge away from the area where we normally stood, where we had seen our guests off.KimPo Airport: I know that place very well. I have gone there numerous times, primarily to bring visitors in and to accompany guests out. Each time I visited KimPo Airport I would say to myself or to my wife: “Not me! Never! I will do their errands for them. I will drive for them and translate for them and all the rest. But no, sir! I will stay home and be a good Gospel Doctrine class teacher in Sunday School!” Thus, the Lord heard my selfish whispering.Elder Maxwell, you taught us about the reality of the costs of discipleship. Further, you said, “They can be paid neither at wholesale rates nor in one lump sum.” (Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1991, p. 24.)I had to learn the lesson very quickly, and I am grateful for the counsel and encouragement of the message.We are now living in Tokyo, Japan. Only the Lord knows why. In Tokyo we have to learn everything all over again, including the new meaning of life. We have to learn the language, the culture, the system of the society, how to commute from one place to another; and, importantly, we are learning about the people and how to love these people.In the book of Mark we read, “Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.” Bearing this cross is not easy, but it will not be too difficult because God lives and He loves us.I meet many “tired leaders” here and there in our area. I hug them and tell them I love them because I have a strong testimony of the living God and His great love.To me, the love of God means going out to the people and doing something good for them and helping them until they change their old ways of living and come to Heavenly Father, happily.Only the love of God will cure many diseases and problems of the world, including the disease of inactivity in the Church.May that love of God bring peace in your homes. I love you, and I know that God, our Heavenly Father, lives and that Jesus Christ is our Savior. Joseph Smith was a true prophet of the Lord in this dispensation.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.