How I love Ardeth Kapp and Jayne Malan and the recently released board members. And what a wonderful feeling came over me when President Monson called to tell me that my counselors had been called. He said, “You shouldn’t be alone.” And then he quickly added, “You are not alone.”I have a testimony of those words and what comfort they give. Four years ago, when I found myself quite suddenly a widow and the youngest of my five children leaving for a mission, I felt alone. I did a lot of walking at that time, and one day I told a neighbor I found myself thinking about youth. She said, “Really? I wonder why?” I concluded that perhaps I was trying to remember who I was before I was married. I said, “If I ever have a chance to work with young people again, I will be so much more patient, so much more gentle, and so much more loving.” And I have since added, “I will do all in my power to encourage young people to prepare for the future.”There are times when we are growing up when we feel alone or left out. Times of change are growing-up times: things like moving, changing schools, going on a mission, having a baby, having your baby go on a mission, a serious illness, losing someone you love. I believe that there are some things that help in these growing-up times so we don’t feel so alone. Spend more time talking to Heavenly Father and reading the scriptures. Listen to the still, small voice. In the words of a young woman of Beehive age: “At first when I would say my prayers and read scriptures, I would never get a good feeling about it. But after about two months of my scriptures and prayer, I began to feel very happy, and I loved my family, and I felt like being nice to everyone.”When the prophet Enos listened to the words of the Lord, he began to feel a desire for the welfare of others. (See  When we start to think of others, we feel less alone.Another thing that helps is to build a support system. As a president needs counselors, we all need caring and interested family and friends. A father said to his daughter: “Somebody does care about you. It may not always be the people you want to have caring about you, but there is always someone who is there and who cares. In fact, you probably already know who they are because they are the ones you have always been able to count on. That won’t change.” (Joseph Walker, “ValueSpeak,” 3 June 1991.) We need people who care. “Thy friends do stand by thee, and they shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands.” Growing up does not take place without a work effort. Not long ago, my youngest daughter came home and said her bishop had asked her to be a Sunday School teacher. She said, “I just don’t feel like a Sunday School teacher.” I said, “You aren’t yet, Mary, but you will be.” Growing up involves developing our potential. Heavenly Father is counting on each one of us. Confidence will grow quietly from within as we work and gain experience.Sometimes we make the mistake of feeling we are alone just because we are not getting recognition. Only a small part of what we do takes place in a public setting. The rest takes place in small and often unseen deeds. When you add the small deeds together, however, they are a thousand times greater than those receiving public recognition. Albert Schweitzer said that when you compare the public deeds to the small, private ones they are “like the foam on the waves of a deep ocean.” (Albert Schweitzer, New York: H. Holt, 1949, p. 90.) This is a good thing to remember when growing up.To every young woman of the Church, in your growing up years you are not alone. I want you to know how much I love you. Do you have any idea how much you are thought about, talked about, prayed about, and loved by your parents and leaders? Learn to work and develop your abilities. Consider the needs of others and give loving service. Support one another as you stand for truth and righteousness. Our Heavenly Father loves you. He understands your challenges. He knows you were prepared before you were born for this time. I have complete faith in the words of our prophet, who said, “You have been born at this time for a sacred and glorious purpose.” (Ezra Taft Benson, “To the Young Women of the Church,” General Women’s Meeting, 28 Sept. 1986.)Now, to every adult member of the Church, may I suggest that you learn the names of the young people in your ward or branch and call them by name. Encourage them in their work efforts. Recognize them for the good things they do. They need our support, and we need theirs. Probably the hardest thing about growing up is that you have to keep doing it. But we are not alone. I bear testimony and express gratitude for this knowledge, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear brothers and sisters, today my heart is filled with joy because of the deep love and respect I feel for the newly called Young Women Presidency. I also feel heartfelt gratitude for my counselors and the Young Women board members I have served with. We rejoice in the opportunities that have come through our callings. I’m grateful to my eternal companion, who has been my constant support.As we have inquired of the Lord in earnest prayer and sought Him diligently, we have felt His Spirit and witnessed His guiding hand. I bear testimony of the wisdom, inspiration, and guidance of our priesthood leaders directing this great work.At the time of my calling President Hinckley spoke of this as a time when the young women of the Church would become a mighty force for righteousness. We are witnessing this around the world.A young fifteen-year-old from Zaire, Africa, wrote, “I know my Heavenly Father loves me because I have asked.”Another young woman wrote: “I am almost fourteen. I want to know if you think it is all right to go to the school dances. If you don’t answer my letter in time for the Halloween dance, I won’t go. I don’t want to disobey.”Behind these righteous young women are loving parents and faithful leaders who sense the sacred trust to teach, to love, to hold a hand, and when appropriate, hold the line.In Tevye speaks to his daughters and says: In Anatevka “Everyone here knows who [she] is and what God expects [of her.]” (Jerry Bauch, “Tradition,” New York: Sunbeam Music, 1971.)It is important for all of us to know who we are and what God expects of us.After Jesus had fasted forty days, the tempter came to Him and attempted to plant seeds of doubt about who He really was: “If thou be the Son of God,” he began his evil ploy.  Jesus knew who He was. He has declared that message clearly to each of us: “Behold, I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God!”  He is our Savior, our advocate with the Father.The young women of the Church have a personal statement which declares their identity: “I am a daughter of a Heavenly Father who loves me, and I will have faith in his eternal plan, which centers in Jesus Christ, my Savior.” (Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1989], p. 3.)Each of us, young and older, through the ordinance of baptism has covenanted to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ, to love, to care, and to serve our brothers and sisters wherever they may be.A few weeks ago I was speaking at a missionary fireside where members had brought their nonmember friends. I noticed a young girl sitting by her mother on the front row. I learned later that she was only twelve years old. I asked her if she would come up. She could hardly see over the pulpit. Unrehearsed, this young girl, with great feeling and conviction in her tender yet clear voice, repeated from memory, “We are daughters of our Heavenly Father who loves us, and we love him. We will ‘stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places. …’” (p. 3.)She continued to the end of the Young Women Theme, including the Young Women Values, while the audience listened in awe.Knowing and remembering who we are and whose we are, we become guided by a force affecting our attitude and our conduct. We draw close to our Father in Heaven through sacred ordinances and covenants available only through His restored church.I had the privilege of visiting with a faithful family of Latter-day Saints in a small nipa hut in the Philippines. In this humble setting a beautiful young woman, fourteen years old, listened intently while her father explained that by saving all the money they could and selling everything they owned, the family would one day have enough to go to the temple where they could be sealed as a family forever.It is our faith in the importance of making covenants with God and coming to understand our immense possibilities that the temple, the house of the Lord, becomes the focus for all that really matters. In the temple we participate in ordinances and covenants that span the distance between heaven and earth. They prepare us to one day return to God’s presence and enjoy the blessings of eternal families and eternal life.I have heard young women around the world repeat in many languages their commitment: “We will be prepared to make and keep sacred covenants, receive the ordinances of the temple, and enjoy the blessings of exaltation.” ( p. 3.) Those blessings can be available to all of us—to all our Father’s children. When our faith is centered in Jesus Christ, our Savior, we begin to understand our identity and our tender relationship to Him as expressed in the song,It is through the ordinances and covenants available in the temple that our Father in Heaven has provided the way for us to return to Him rejoicing. To these eternal truths I bear my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.