Recently, I had the opportunity to sit at the back of a chapel during a sharing time session of Primary and watch a lively group of youngsters keep a music teacher very busy. For a final song the director asked the children to sing “I Am a Child of God.” They quieted down, and for the first song of the entire session the voices unified in quality instead of quantity. The words rang throughout the chapel with an angel-like resonance:These pleading words sank deep into my heart that day and stirred my soul. What a great burden of responsibility the Lord has placed upon us as parents: to take these children and lead them in the ways of holiness, to guide them through the perils of mortality, and to walk beside them on the straight and narrow path which leads to eternity. Yes, the responsibility is ours to teach them all they must do so that someday, as the mortal is changed to immortal, they will be prepared to return to the presence of the Father and dwell with him and their Elder Brother, Jesus Christ.The Book of Mormon clearly shows the value of righteousness and dedication in parents. The first statement of Nephi is a tribute to his parents: “I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father.”  Enos wrote, “And the words which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life, and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.”  Mormon recorded of Nephi and Lehi, the two sons of Helaman: “For they remembered the words which their father Helaman spake unto them. And these are the words which he spake.”  Here we have a tribute to a goodly parent and also the words which he spoke to his children. He reminded them of the names he had given them so that they would always seek to do good works and desire the precious gift of eternal life. (See  Then he told them, “O remember, remember, my sons, the words which King Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ.” The reference to the words of King Benjamin shows that Helaman, as a parent, knew the scriptures and taught his children to follow the words of the prophets. He continued, saying, “And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation.” What better teaching could a parent provide for a child than that of following the prophets and building a sure foundation upon Jesus Christ? The Book of Mormon prophet Jacob instructed that once they have been taught and “obtained a hope in Christ,” we may then teach them how to earn riches so that they can use them “to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry.”  We must teach them all that they must do to live with Him, and the best teacher is example.As I sat there in the back of the chapel, I silently asked myself, “Am I doing all the things which I must do? Can my wife and daughter walk alongside me with confidence that I will lead them into the celestial kingdom? ‘Lead me, guide me, walk beside me …’” Stop. Stop for one minute and ask the same question of yourself: “Can my spouse and children walk alongside me with confidence that I will lead them into the celestial kingdom?” The Savior said, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God.” The instructions are clear. We must teach, and we must be an example of those teachings; but many times in our zeal to persuade others to righteousness we begin to use force, which results in rebellion. Attempting to force others to accept our way of thinking will cause them to close their minds to our teachings and ultimately reject our words. They have their free agency.In the Doctrine and Covenants, section 121, the Lord explains the proper way to teach. He said, “Only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned;“By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul.”  How I love those words “enlarge the soul.” Proper teaching will enlarge the soul.For example, let us compare a child to an empty glass, and our knowledge and experience, which have accumulated over the years, to a bucketful of water. Logic and physics tell us that we cannot pour a bucketful of water directly into a small glass. However, by using correct principles of transferring knowledge, the glass can be enlarged. Those principles are persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. They will enlarge the glass, which is the soul of the child, allowing that child to receive much more than the original bucketful.Behavioral psychologists have written libraries of books on this subject. The Lord gave us the same information in just a few verses of scripture. We must always teach, lead, and guide in a way which will create high levels of self-esteem in our children and others.To create and maintain self-esteem, our words and our actions must always express to the individual that he or she is important and capable. The words the scriptures use are “to lift.” The psychologists would say, “Reinforce the positive.” The secret is simple. Always look for the good in the individual and lift, reinforce the positive by words and actions. Put-downs, words like “stupid” or “dummy,” or phrases like “Why can’t you do anything right?” destroy self-esteem and shouldn’t be part of our vocabulary. It is impossible to emphasize the good in others if negative words or phrases are readily available on the tips of our tongues or expressed through our gestures.The plea behind the words “Walk beside me, Help me find the way” is this: “Lift me. Strengthen my feeble knees. Let me know that I am important and capable.” (See When correction and discipline must take place, it is essential to continue lifting and strengthening, ensuring that the feelings of being important and capable are not lost. Again, in section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord explains how: “Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved.” As Elder Maxwell has observed, the word  is casually assumed to mean “from time to time,” or “occasionally,” when actually it means “early on.” Therefore, correction must take place early on with the direction of the Holy Ghost and not in anger. One hundred and thirty-two years ago, in a discourse in this tabernacle, Brigham Young counseled, “Never chasten beyond the balm you have within you to bind up.” ( 9:124–25.) The Lord said, “… showing forth afterwards an increase of love.” The instructions on how to correct are clear and simple: early on, with the peace of the Holy Ghost, and with enough of the healing power within us to make sure that self-esteem is never wounded, ensuring always that the individual feels important and capable.Oh, goodly parent, hear the words and respond accordingly:In the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear brothers and sisters, I feel very humble as I stand at the same pulpit where so many men of God come to teach us the eternal truths of the everlasting gospel.I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may be present this afternoon so that as I express myself in a language which is not my own, you may understand in your mind and in your heart what I will try to say, that his promise that we both may be edified and rejoice together may be fulfilled. (See  I ask you to have a prayer in your heart that this may be possible.First of all I would like to express to my Heavenly Father gratitude for his love, his mercy, his patience, and, above all, for his confidence in me. I would like to thank the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, and the Seventy for everything they have taught me during the course of many years about the Savior and the way I can serve him better. I would also like to thank my mission president, who believed in me during my youth. He gave me confidence and nurtured my testimony of Christ and his restored gospel.I come to this calling with a feeling of inadequacy but also with a great and solemn testimony that comes from God that I am willing to give my best to serve the Lord and his people. I received this calling through President Hinckley, who also called me as the stake mission president of the first stake in Santiago, Chile, in 1972 and later as president of the Mexico City South Mission in 1982.As I have pondered about my childhood, my youth, and my adult life, I believe that the foundation for my beliefs was laid by my parents during the years of my childhood and youth. I wish to render a tribute to them. My father and mother, with no formal education, knew how to teach the eternal principles of the gospel. I am the tenth child in a family of twelve children—ten boys and two girls.The Lord gave to Israel, through Moses, the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai. I wish to call to your attention today the fifth of these commandments, which says, “Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee” There are two things that our parents did with all of their children for which we now honor them. First, they taught us correct principles and helped us walk uprightly before the Lord and live his commandments. Second, they taught us the value of work, personal integrity, and family unity. Even though not all of us are members of the Church, we have tried to live according to the principles they taught us.Every year we have the opportunity to gather as a family—children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren—with my father. He does what Lehi did before he died, when he gathered together his children and told them: “And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might not be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise from the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one mind and in one heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down into captivity.” When I was about to go on a mission, I worried about the same things that today worry the young men and young women who will also serve missions. I worried about work, my girlfriend, school, and family. When I was old enough to go on a mission, my father was almost sixty-six years old, and I thought, my father is old, and if I leave for two years, he may die and I will not see him anymore. Who will take care of my mother? She will be all alone when he is no longer at her side.May I tell you that I served two years in the mission, I served in the Church schools in Chile for five years, I served as a mission president for three years, as a Regional Representative for six years, and my father is still here at the head of the family. He was born a month after President Benson, so last month he turned ninety-three years old.I testify that when we serve the Lord with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength, he blesses us.I also wish to render tribute to the parents of my loving companion, who taught her as my parents did me. I thank them for having accepted the gospel even before she was born.I testify that an excellent way to honor our parents is to keep the commandments and serve the Lord.After having been set apart to serve in the Second Quorum of the Seventy, I, with my wife and one of our children, visited my father. We asked him to give me a blessing, something which I have always striven to do when I have received a new priesthood assignment. He laid his hands upon my head and gave me a short but grand blessing. He said, “Son, I bless you that the Holy Spirit may accompany you, your wife, and your children in everything you do.” What more could I wish for?I would also like to thank my sweet companion and my dear children, two of whom are now serving full-time missions and the third is awaiting his call. Without their love and confidence I could do nothing. I love them dearly, and I trust them completely.I invite all who are listening, young and old alike, to honor their parents day by day and to try to do those things that bring honor to them. I testify with all my heart that God lives, that his son Jesus Christ honored him by keeping his commandments and obeying his will. Our Savior taught us this when he said, “For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.” I testify that the Savior is our example and model of life. We must strive every day to follow his teachings and do the things that he did, for “the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do” I testify that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that through him the fulness of the gospel has been restored to bless the families of the earth. I also testify that Ezra Taft Benson is the prophet of God for our day and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true and living church upon the face of the earth. I testify of these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.