“And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.” What a beautiful scripture, and how true it is. It deeply reaches into my heart and mind. When two young sister missionaries taught us the true gospel of Jesus Christ, they referred to the Book of Mormon. They taught us at home, along with my four children.For the first time, I understood that through the gospel, my son who had died years before could be with me—also that my other children would have the opportunity to love God and Jesus Christ. I have been blessed since the moment I made the most important and correct decision in my life, which was to accept the gospel of Jesus Christ.After a year and a half, my husband accepted the gospel, leaving aside all those traditions. He is a good man, a good husband, and a good father.We have been sealed as a family in the holy temple of the Lord. I’m the mother of children who have served missions, and I’m the grandmother of seven grandchildren. As if that weren’t enough, my husband is a sealer in the temple and a patriarch in our stake. My children hold callings, and I work in the Relief Society, where I feel love towards my sisters. I’m grateful to my Heavenly Father for having his gospel and for knowing he lives, that Christ is my king and redeemer, and that he lives in my heart. I deeply love him. I know that Joseph Smith restored the gospel. This gives us the opportunity to know and feel that our prophet, Ezra Taft Benson, is a man guided by God. We have a rare possession, which is the Book of Mormon.I testify all this to be true, in the name of Christ Jesus, amen.A few years ago, I read the Book of Mormon for the first time. In five months my family and I were baptized. Ever since that time, this book has been my constant companion. I have also realized that to study this book, one has to invite the Holy Spirit for guidance and to gain understanding. This book was designed for us today.After studying the Book of Mormon, I also qualified to inquire of the Lord as to the truthfulness of this book. This is how I gained my testimony of the gospel.I will liken my testimony to a plant in my living room. I have had this plant for many years. I have given shoots to friends, who also have grown to love it. Whenever I moved house, I took it with me. This plant has stayed healthy and green because I regularly give it nourishment. I give it plenty of fresh air and sunshine; otherwise, it would eventually wither and die.However, our testimonies are more valuable than the plant I told you about. We also need to share them with others and thus strengthen them. We need to keep in tune with the Spirit so that our testimonies can survive the storms of this life. We can further build our testimonies not only by reading and studying the scriptures but by sharing and teaching the same to others and then gaining the warmth of that charity that “never faileth.”The plants and ornaments in our houses we shall leave here on earth. Our testimonies are so priceless. When we return home to Heavenly Father, we shall take them with us. So it is worthwhile building a strong testimony today.I love the gospel and I know it is true. I know the Prophet Joseph Smith was called to restore the gospel in these latter days. I know Heavenly Father still calls prophets to teach and guide us today, even our present prophet. Jesus Christ lives and loves us, and I know if we keep our testimonies strong we will meet him some day. I pray in his name, amen.