You wonderful, righteous members of this church constantly inspire and motivate me. Thank you for your zest for life, your generous giving of self, your devotion, and your determination to live worthily. I also express gratitude to our many friends who have joined us through these conference sessions. May the messages given bless your lives.Recently in South America a youth inquired, “Can you give us suggestions that will help us know the Savior better and be able to constantly follow His example?” That meaningful question and others like it have prompted this message on acquiring spiritual knowledge.President Ezra Taft Benson emphasized the importance of spiritual knowledge, saying:“We should make daily study of the scriptures a lifetime pursuit. … The most important [thing] you can do … is to immerse yourselves in the scriptures. Search them diligently. … Learn the doctrine. Master the principles. …“You must … see that … searching the scriptures is not a burden laid upon [us] by the Lord, but a marvelous blessing and opportunity” ( Nov. 1986, p. 47).President Spencer W. Kimball commented:“Spiritual learning takes precedence. The secular without the foundation of the spiritual is … like the foam upon the milk, the fleeting shadow. … One need not choose between the two … for there is opportunity to get both simultaneously” ( ed. Edward L. Kimball, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982, p. 390).As you seek spiritual knowledge, search for principles. Carefully separate them from the detail used to explain them. Principles are concentrated truth, packaged for application to a wide variety of circumstances. A true principle makes decisions clear even under the most confusing and compelling circumstances. It is worth great effort to organize the truth we gather to simple statements of principle. I have tried to do that with gaining spiritual knowledge. The result is now shared in hope that it will be a beginning place for your study. That statement of principle is:
	  
	As spiritual knowledge unfolds, it must be andI will explain that statement using examples from the scriptures, the prophets, and the precious, though difficult, laboratory of personal experience. My desire is that the suggestions given will help you in your quest for spiritual truth throughout your life. Then, in time, you may accomplish this objective given by President Joseph F. Smith:“The greatest achievement mankind can make in this world is to familiarize themselves with divine truth, so thoroughly, so perfectly, that the example or conduct of no creature living in the world can ever turn them away from the knowledge that they have obtained. …“From my boyhood I have desired to learn the principles of the gospel in such a way … that it would matter not to me who might fall from the truth, … my foundation would be … certain in the truths … I have learned” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1939, pp. 3–4).Like President Smith, you and I need that kind of secure anchor to keep our life centered in righteousness and to avoid being swept away by the ruthless waves of worldliness.The following scriptures teach why we should “Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a  unto my path”  emphasis added).“I, the Lord, … will be a  unto them forever, that hear my words”  emphasis added).“It is I that speak; … I am the  which shineth in darkness, and by my power I give these words unto thee. …“Put your trust in that Spirit which leadeth to do good—yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously; and this is my Spirit. …“I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy;“And … by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive”  emphasis added).Analogies with physical light help us understand the power of spiritual light. A bulb ignited in a dark room overpowers darkness. Yet if the darkness is too intense, it can overpower light, as with a bulb plunged into a bucket of black ink. Spiritual light overcomes the darkness of ignorance and disbelief. When transgression severely clouds a life, the focused spiritual truths of repentance cut the blackness as a laser penetrates the darkest ink. is essential to the acquiring of spiritual knowledge. To be humble is to be teachable. Humility permits you to be tutored by the Spirit and to be taught from sources inspired by the Lord, such as the scriptures. The seeds of personal growth and understanding germinate and flourish in the fertile soil of humility. Their fruit is spiritual knowledge to guide you here and hereafter.A proud individual cannot know the things of the Spirit. Paul taught this truth, saying:“The things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. …“But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned” Since it requires much personal effort to gain and use worthwhile knowledge, you cannot endlessly sample from every fascinating arena of life. Therefore, you should select carefully a few vital areas where you can focus energy to learn and share vital truths. I know that to gain knowledge of great worth requires extraordinary personal effort. This is particularly true when our desire is to obtain spiritual knowledge. President Kimball said it this way:“The treasures of both secular and spiritual knowledge are hidden ones—but hidden from those who do not properly search and strive to find them. … Spiritual knowledge is not available merely for the asking; even prayers are not enough. It takes persistence and dedication of one’s life. … Of all treasures of knowledge, the most vital is the knowledge of God” ( pp. 389–90).Brigham Young learned truth by carefully listening to Joseph Smith and striving to understand everything that was taught by word, example, or the Spirit. The resulting tutoring has blessed generations. It conditioned Brigham Young to learn additional truths and to share far more than he had received personally from Joseph Smith. Follow his example.The need to  is absolutely essential. It is the foundation of the plan of salvation. When that exercise of faith is coupled with sincere effort based upon a willingness to  great personal growth and blessings follow. The Savior declared:“I now give unto you a commandment … to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life.“For you shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God.“For the word of the Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is  and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ.“And the Spirit giveth  to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit.“And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto … the Father”  emphasis added).The role of  in gaining spiritual knowledge is crucial, as this comment of President Joseph Fielding Smith confirms:“Now the Lord would give us gifts. He will quicken our minds. He will give us … a knowledge that will be so deeply rooted in our souls that [it] … can never be rooted out, if we will just seek for the light … and the understanding which is promised to us, and which we can receive if we will only be true and faithful to every covenant and obligation pertaining to the gospel of Jesus Christ” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1958, p. 22).To keep the commandments, you must know them. The best single source for learning them is the scriptures. President Joseph Fielding Smith gave this admonition:“Today we are troubled by evil-designing persons who [endeavor] … to destroy the testimonies of members of the Church, and many … are in danger because of lack of understanding and because they have not sought the guidance of the Spirit. … It is a commandment from the Lord that members … be diligent … and study … the fundamental truths of the gospel. … Every baptized person [can] have an abiding testimony. … but [it] … will grow dim and eventually disappear [without] … study, obedience, and diligent seeking to know and understand the truth” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1963, p. 22).Profound spiritual truth cannot simply be poured from one mind and heart to another. It takes faith and diligent effort. Precious truth comes a small piece at a time through faith, with great exertion, and at times wrenching struggles. The Lord intends it be that way so that we can mature and progress. Moroni said, “Dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial of your faith”  To explain that truth, President Harold B. Lee gave this wise instruction:“The Savior’s blood, His atonement, will save us, but only after we have done all we can to save ourselves by keeping His commandments. All of the principles of the gospel are principles of promise by which the plans of the Almighty are unfolded to us” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1974, p. 245).As packets of knowledge unfold, they must be and I’ll explain:We have come to the end of a great conference. Through its messages, you have been given inspired truth without much effort on your part. Make these truths yours through study and thoughtful application and by emulating a prophet of God, Spencer W. Kimball, who at the conclusion of a conference, taught:“While sitting here, I have made up my mind that when I go home from this conference this night there are many, many areas in my life that I can perfect. I have made a mental list of them, and I expect to go to work as soon as we get through with conference” (in Conference Report, Oct. 1975, p. 164).The privilege of learning absolute truth is sacred to me. I stand in awe that our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son are willing, even anxious for us to learn from them. Please use what I have shared with sensitivity for the wondrous privilege given each of us, willing to obey, to be taught eternal truth. Gaining spiritual knowledge is not a mechanical process. It is a sacred privilege based upon spiritual law. I testify that you can receive inspired help. Humbly ask your Eternal Father. Seek divine light. Exercise faith in the Savior. Strive to hearken to His counsel and obey His commandments. He will bless and lead you as you move through this sometimes treacherous world.I solemnly testify that Jesus Christ guides this, His church. He knows and loves you personally. As you walk in faithful obedience, He will bless you, inspire you, and lead you to greater knowledge and capacity. I certify that He lives, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.The Savior of the world, the Redeemer of all God’s children, Jesus of Nazareth, has power to forgive sins. His own witness of such power is recorded in the New Testament (see    His Apostles Peter and Paul testified of this truth (see    as did also the prophets of the Book of Mormon (see    and of modern times (see Through the centuries, many have received great joy and peace of mind through understanding and accepting the Lord’s forgiveness. Yet, many others apparently continue to bear the burden of guilt, remorse, and self-doubt because of an incomplete understanding and testimony of the doctrine of Christ.Recently I was in private conversation with one who, having committed a serious transgression, had also made intense effort to repent and receive forgiveness from those personally offended, from the Church, and from the Lord. When I asked, “Do you feel forgiven by your Heavenly Father?” he answered hesitantly with an affirmative but qualified response. “How do we obtain divine forgiveness?” I asked.He spoke of how he had forsaken his transgressive behavior of the past, confessed to proper priesthood authorities, and attempted to make restitution to those offended. He further described his efforts to live according to gospel principles and Church standards.The Savior and his atoning sacrifice were not mentioned. The underlying assumption seemed to be that divine forgiveness is obtained through those steps of repentance limited to changing one’s behavior. Despite the brother’s earnest efforts to repent, he appeared to be burdened still by remorse and regret and to feel that he must continue to pay for his sins.Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. Others, to my knowledge, are burdened by past mistakes, large and small, because of an incomplete or incorrect understanding of our Father’s plan of redemption and mercy. Those so burdened may unnecessarily struggle through life without the joy and peace of mind which are the intended result of true repentance and divine forgiveness.One who assumes that he can or must pay the price for his sins and thereby earn divine forgiveness will not feel free to continue progress toward realizing his divine potential, that is, eternal life.The fact is we cannot save ourselves.The best source through which a correct understanding of how forgiveness may be obtained is the Book of Mormon. Let us consider some examples of its teachings.Enos recorded for us his experience, alone in the forest, remembering the words of his father concerning eternal life:“And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul; …“And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee. …“… Wherefore, my guilt was swept away.“And I said: Lord, how is it done?“And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ” How is it done? The question each of us may ponder. Again we turn to the Book of Mormon for additional understanding.Father Lehi teaches us that the divine purpose of our mortal probation requires us to experience opposition in all things and, knowing good from evil, to exercise our moral agency, make choices, and be accountable for the consequences (see We learn from the prophet Alma that we are subject to divine law, which all have transgressed in some respect, making us subject to the demands of justice (see  God’s justice is based upon divine laws, under which we receive what we deserve according to our disobedience or obedience to the law.Justice affords no forgiveness for transgressors but imposes penalties (see  None is exempt (see  After all we can do to repent, we are still subject to the demands of justice and its penalties, which we cannot satisfy.However, we learn from Alma of our Father’s plan of mercy, whereby the Son of God would atone for the sins of the world and “appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also” The Savior’s vicarious sacrifice satisfies the justice of God. Therefore, God extends his mercy, whereby we may receive forgiveness of our personal transgressions through faith in the Redeemer, followed by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel.Father Lehi taught his son Jacob:“Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth.“Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit” The beginning and completion of repentance leading to forgiveness is faith in Jesus Christ, who is the “author and the finisher of [our] faith”  Our faith in him as Savior and Redeemer engenders in us godly sorrow for our transgressions, a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and a sense of personal accountability. There follows a change in attitude and a turning toward God.We resolve to forsake disobedience, even carelessness, and strive better to know and love our Father in Heaven and to obey his laws and commandments. Throughout, we pray for our Father’s forgiveness, for strength to resist temptation, and for inspiration to fill our lives with that which is good and pleasing to the Lord. We seek the forgiveness of individuals whom we may have wronged and attempt restitution to the extent possible.If our past behavior is such as to affect our standing in the Church, we confess to appropriate Church authorities and, if necessary, submit to Church discipline, which is not for the purpose of punishment only but is intended to heal and renew.Throughout the repentance process we have feelings of regret, remorse, and guilt, which cause us to suffer. However, our individual suffering does not satisfy the demands of justice which follow disobedience to divine law. We cannot pay the price for our sins.The resurrected Christ has said, “For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent”  To the Nephites he declared, “Return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that ”  italics added).The Lord’s gift of forgiveness, however, is not complete until it is accepted. True and complete repentance is a process by which we may become reconciled with God and accept the divine gift of forgiveness.In the words of Nephi, “It is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do” The effect of the infinite, atoning sacrifice was twofold: First, resurrection and immortality for all, unconditionally granted. Second, eternal life for each one who fulfills the prescribed conditions, which are faith in Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer, followed by repentance.Then we must qualify for and receive the saving and exalting ordinances of the gospel with their associated covenants, continuously striving to keep those covenants and obey the commandments of God.Being mortal, and despite our resolve and efforts, we will continue to fall short of perfection. However, with Nephi of old, conscious of our weaknesses, temptations, and past mistakes, we may say, “Nevertheless, I know in whom I have trusted”  There follows a natural resolve to renew our efforts.Essential to receiving divine forgiveness are personal, individual recognition and acceptance of our Father’s mercy, made available to us by the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ and a renewed covenant to obey the principles of the gospel.Examples of this process and its results are found in the Book of Mormon. Having been taught the doctrine of the Atonement, the people of King Benjamin, conscious of their past transgressions, pleaded for mercy that by the atoning blood of Christ they might receive forgiveness of their sins, for, said they, “We believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God. …“[And] the Spirit of the Lord came upon them, and they were filled with joy, having received a remission of their sins, and having peace of conscience, because of the exceeding faith which they had in Jesus Christ” Each of us may ask, “How may I know that I am forgiven?”Having completed the steps of repentance, relying upon the grace and mercy of God, it is natural for us to testify of the Savior and his atoning sacrifice and to strive to be an example of the believers.From Elder Bruce R. McConkie, an Apostle of Jesus Christ, we receive these comforting words:“The relationship between the bearing of testimony by the power of the Holy Ghost and the forgiveness of sins illustrates a glorious gospel truth. It is that whenever faithful saints gain the companionship of the Holy Spirit, they are clean and pure before the Lord, for the Spirit will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle. Hence, they thereby receive a remission of those sins committed after baptism” ( 4 vols., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1980, 3:40–41, n. 1).The central core of the gospel is the vicarious sacrifice of the Savior, which satisfies divine justice and makes operative God’s mercy, resulting in a universal, unconditional resurrection and the possibility of eternal life for each one who accepts Jesus Christ as Redeemer and obeys the principles, ordinances, and covenants of the gospel.The ancient prophet Isaiah taught us, “Cease to do evil;“Learn to do well. …“Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool” And further, “Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows. …“He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed” The prophet of this dispensation, Joseph Smith, and his companion Sidney Rigdon gave testimony of the gospel, as recorded in the 76th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Each of us may receive  spiritual witness, and therefore I suggest that we may express their testimony as our own “And this is the gospel …“That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for [me], and to bear [my] sins … , and to sanctify [me], and to cleanse [me] from all unrighteousness;“That through him [I] might be saved” In conclusion, these verses from a favorite hymn:To these truths which I have sought to teach I bear solemn, personal witness, in the sacred name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.