Knowing that I might be invited to speak today, my daughter left me a kind note this morning, and at the end she added, “P.S. Don’t trip.” So far so good.Not long after I was ordained a deacon, my bishop, Leon Walker, asked me into his office to give me an assignment. He handed me a bright key, the key to the chapel, and charged me with responsibility to help look after the building. I considered myself one of the most fortunate boys in the world to have an assignment from my priesthood president. I thought this would not be a difficult task. My home was just a one-minute bicycle ride away from the building. But I soon learned what I suppose all bishops know, and that is, that everybody in the ward seems to have a key to the building. As soon as I had the building locked up on an evening, someone came along behind me and opened a door. As soon as I had opened a Primary classroom, some diligent soul was there behind me to lock it up again. I could hardly stay on top of that job.But I began to learn then, as I have come to understand since, that any call, any service, in our Lord’s cause sanctifies us. Whether it is performed in the glare of the public eye or in a quiet corner known only to God is of no consequence. What matters is that we do serve, for by serving we keep our covenants with Deity, and in those covenants is the promise of salvation.Today I honor and express my love to those who taught me the covenants and in so many other ways blessed my life: a noble father, a blessed mother, grandparents, great-grandparents, and extended family, mentors and friends both in and out of the Church. My children cannot as yet fully understand how deeply they bless my life by their loyalty to the Savior and his gospel. I honor them for that. Those who know my Kathy have observed that I married much above myself, a conclusion I heartily agree with. Our marriage is a gratifying thing, and I have not adequate words to express my love.As I have agonized in recent hours over the acceptability and adequacy of my offering upon the altar of him who gave his all, it has come to me that I must focus outwardly, that as I seek the interest of his flock and lose myself in their service, his grace shall be sufficient for me. I so commit myself unreservedly.I readily attest to the reality and greatness of our God, to his goodness and grace, to his justice and mercy, to the truth of his gospel and the power of his priesthood and the authenticity of the calling of his latter-day seers. At the outset of this ministry, I acknowledge that anything I may achieve will be by virtue of the power and the grace and the gift of God. I am not, in Isaiah’s words, the axe that shall “boast itself against him that heweth therewith”; I am not the saw that shall “magnify itself against him that shaketh it.”  With Nephi, I know in whom I have trusted. (See I am particularly gratified, and it is of great significance to me, that I may at any moment and in any circumstance approach through prayer the throne of grace, that my Heavenly Father will hear my petition, that my Advocate, him who did no sin, whose blood was shed, will plead my cause. (See  I rely heavily on that access to God, which he gives to all his children, for he is indeed no respecter of persons, and he that asks shall receive. I so witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.“The Lord declared that it is his work and his glory ‘to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.’  He has established his Church to help in this great work. Accordingly, the Church’s mission is to ‘invite all to come unto Christ’  and ‘be perfected in him’  ( 1990, p. 3.)I would like to discuss at least in part what The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints asks people to do when it invites them “to come unto Christ.” It should be understood this invitation is not a request to participate in a single event, but to participate in a process.This process leads individuals to eternal life, which “is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation.” How do we begin this most exciting and important process? The Book of Mormon records the events that occurred when Christ, following his resurrection, visited the people of Nephi in the land Bountiful. So important was this event that his Father introduced him, saying, “Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—”  emphasis added.)From this introduction we learn the first required action:  If we are to come unto Christ, we must first listen to him. We must learn who he is. Following his Father’s introduction, he told the people:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.” He then invited them to come forth, one by one and “see with their eyes and … feel with their hands.”  These people experienced personal knowledge of who he was. However, Jesus reminded them that coming to him through faith is even more acceptable.“And again,  are they who shall believe in your words because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they who shall believe in your words.”  emphasis added.)We are fortunate to have the scriptures, which contain the words of ancient Apostles and prophets, and to have the privilege of listening to modern-day Apostles and prophets testify of Christ.What were the next words Jesus gave to the people in Bountiful? Think of all he could have said. He is the creator of this earth and countless others; he had just wrought the infinite atonement; he had just broken the bonds of death; he had just visited with his Father in Heaven. He could have discussed many, many wonderful and important subjects, but he chose to teach his doctrine, which is:“And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.“Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them.” Not only did the Lord teach the need for baptism, but he called special disciples and gave them power to baptize. He also taught them the correct manner of baptism.Clearly, it is vital, on the journey to eternal life, to exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repent of our sins, and be baptized in the proper manner, by those holding the proper authority and using the proper prayer. After this kind of baptism we can “be visited with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and … receive a remission of … sins.”  However, in order to progress we must yield “to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.” As we come unto Christ, we must surrender our worldly ways, our pride, and our selfishness. As we yield to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we should experience a “mighty change in [our] hearts”  and become willing to submit to or accept “all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [us]” Life is often difficult. There are trials, disappointments, challenges, sickness, unemployment even for the Saints. These must be borne with submissive patience, for often these trials are evidence of the Lord’s hand preparing us to be worthy of living with him. To yield to Christ means to put him and his teachings first. The total submission of our will to his is one of the most difficult obstacles we face on our journey toward eternal life. The rewards of this submission are beautifully described by President Ezra Taft Benson:“Men and women who turn their lives over to God will discover that He can make a lot more out of their lives than they can. He will deepen their joys, expand their vision, quicken their minds, strengthen their muscles, lift their spirits, multiply their blessings, increase their opportunities, comfort their souls, raise up friends, and pour out peace.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, p. 361.)Self-control and self-discipline are important virtues that need to be developed in the process of coming unto Christ. In my teenage years, when I was going out to an activity, my parents would say, “Son, remember who you are.” Is this phrase familiar to you? This short statement effectively reminded me of the trust my parents had in me, of the expectations of loving grandparents, concerned uncles, aunts, and priesthood leaders. It reminded me of my responsibility to be a good example to younger brothers and sisters.Heavenly Father provides us with a similar request. He asks us to “always remember him”  and “to stand as witnesses of [him] at all times and in all things, and in all places that [we] may be in” These reminders provide a simple, but effective, decision-making tool that can help us develop needed self-control and self-discipline.Any thought, activity, or action that is compatible with the name, the life, or the teachings of Jesus Christ is acceptable. Any behavior that is not compatible with his name, his life, or his teachings is not acceptable and should be avoided.The process of being perfected requires that we receive special instruction, make sacred covenants, and receive the highest ordinances of the priesthood. These blessings are available only in the temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Individuals who come unto Christ must come to his temple.It is my prayer that all of us examine our lives and evaluate where we are in the process of coming unto Christ and being perfected in him. The Book of Mormon promised if we “come unto him, and offer [our] whole souls as an offering unto him, and  and  … [we] will be saved.”  emphasis added.)If you have not yet accepted the invitation to come unto him, please do so now. Missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are prepared and eager to teach you the doctrine of Christ. They hold the proper authority, baptize in the proper manner, and use the proper prayer.If you previously began the process of coming unto Christ but lost your way or took a detour, do not despair; begin again. Come back, come back now! Come unto Christ and enjoy the “fruit of the Spirit,” namely, “love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance” and begin to “walk in the Spirit”  and to “lay hold upon every good gift” I testify that he lives, that he is the light and life of the world, that he is our Savior and our Redeemer, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.