 and  are common words in the restored church. Someone said, “The one who doesn’t live to serve doesn’t serve to live”—wise words which are applied to each priesthood holder. Another word to describe the priesthood is  literally, every man who receives the priesthood is “called to serve.” The Apostle Peter said about you, “But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people”  I will illustrate with one story.María Coj was a seventeen-year-old member of the Church, the oldest of eight children. She was sick with cysticercosis, a parasitic infection that comes from eating contaminated food, that with time spread to her brain, causing terrible headaches and then blindness. To give her relief from the pain, it was necessary to move her from her home in Sololá to Guatemala City. Because of convulsions caused by the advances of the illness, her condition worsened, and it was only with life-support systems that she was kept alive. It was evident that she could not live long under those conditions.At this same time, Erika Alonzo, a twelve-year-old and partially blind member of the Church, traveled twenty-two hours by bus from Honduras to Guatemala City to receive an eye operation. For two weeks she waited for an acceptable cornea from the United States to be transplanted to her eye, but none was available.At this same time María died. Because her blindness was caused by pressure to her brain, her corneas were healthy. María’s father and mother authorized the cornea donation. The operation was a success.On the twelfth of July 1993, Erika traveled to Sololá to meet the Coj family for the first time. The surprised family asked her, “Can you see?” She answered, “I see everything clearly.” It was a spiritual meeting. Sister Coj, who did not understand much Spanish because her native language is Cakchiquel, felt the love and the spirit of the conversation.Because of the donation of María’s eyes, Erika can now see and enjoy everything around her. The death of one person and the love of her parents blessed the life of another. The medical miracle of one person being able to look through eyes of another is a surprising reality.Spiritually speaking, as you Aaronic Priesthood youth contemplate the blessings of this life and of eternity through the eyes of your faithful parents, teachers, bishops, Apostles, and prophets, you will discover that, through the small donations of daily time to ponder, pray, and study the scriptures, they will teach you of the divine that is in you.Expand your vision and recognize that you have ties with God; lift your sight and live worthy of the priesthood that you hold. Learn in your youth to control your passions, desires, and appetites. Seriously prepare yourselves to fulfill your glorious responsibility to preach the truths of the Restoration, which are that Jesus is the Christ and that salvation comes only through Him, that Joseph Smith was a prophet who was instructed by divine messengers to restore with power and authority all covenants and ordinances that are found in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.In each priesthood holder should burn the personal conviction that the mission of Jesus Christ was unique: The Son of the Eternal Heavenly Father and of a mortal mother, especially chosen, He became the Only Begotten Son of God, which qualified Him to be the Mediator, Savior, and Redeemer of mankind. Even though He was slandered, spit upon, slapped, whipped, and humiliated, “yet he opened not his mouth” He died at an early age; He was strong and young, of unlimited wisdom. When you are thirty-three, you will understand better. His sacrifice was painful but indispensable. He was the first to be resurrected, clothed in glory and eternal life.The atonement of the Son of God opened the possibility that all mankind could return to the presence of the Father. Now He teaches us, “Follow me, and do the things which ye have seen me do” It will be your privilege to serve two years as a missionary with an eye single to glorify God and build His kingdom (see  During that time, Christ will refine your spirit. He will mold your character and plant in your heart the principles that will permit you to live in righteousness and joy in this life and for eternity.You might think that you will sacrifice much to leave your family, your education, and your comfortable life. Others might complain that missionary life is rigorous. The thousands who have served will testify to you that when you count your blessings, sacrifice does not exist.I would like to share an experience of faith. Being the only child, Elder Hermelindo Coy said good-bye to his mother and left for the first time in his life his small village in the mountains of Senahú, Guatemala. He entered the Missionary Training Center the fourteenth of March 1991. Although he had been a member of the Church for only two years and also very timid about talking to people, his determination to serve was great. His formal education was less than five years of elementary school in his native language of Kekchi. Spanish, the official language of Guatemala, was foreign to him.During his mission he learned to live with pain in his leg. He rarely complained. In August 1992 he noticed that in addition to the increase in the pain, something was abnormal about his knee. He had a medical exam—the diagnosis:  A more careful exam revealed cancer in the liver, lungs, and lymphatic system; in other words, his illness was terminal. He did not understand the nature of the illness nor its seriousness. With the help of a translator and using examples from the farm life with which he was familiar, he understood that he had little time to live.He never asked, Why is this happening to me? He did not lament, nor express negative feelings. He was obedient to all that was required of him. He was asked if he would like to return home, but he asked to remain in the mission and serve as long as possible, even until his death. By October of the same year, he walked with difficulty, requiring the use of a cane. He could work only a few hours each day. By December he was unable to walk. For the first time he was discouraged because he could not proselyte. His worry was always who would take care of his mother after he died.In one of his visits, the mission president asked him to teach more of the basic doctrine to his mother, who, along with mission nurses, was providing twenty-four-hour care. When he taught the plan of salvation to his mother in his native tongue, his face radiated assurance and light. Elder Coy was understanding with power and conviction what he was teaching.As his strength declined, he placed his complete trust in the Lord. On one occasion when the pain was very strong, he expressed in prayer, “Heavenly Father, I do not know the day nor the hour that I will die, but I want to know soon from thee about my new assignment.” He died in February 1993. His death blessed all the missionaries, leaders, members, and even nonmembers who learned of his courage to serve and endure to the end. His faith was so simple that it was contagious. He never feared death. He strengthened all who knew him.My beloved youth, I promise you that as you serve with faith as did Elder Coy, and as you look through the eyes of your parents and leaders who love you also, your testimony will be strengthened, your vision will expand, which will illuminate all who are spiritually blind and will help them to return to Christ. Arise and shine; be like the over forty-nine thousand missionaries who today are taking the light, hope, and knowledge to those who need it. I add my own testimony of the divinity of this work in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My brethren, with tender feelings I greet you in the spirit of love and respect. My thanks for all the good you do in behalf of our Father’s children all over the world. This evening I hope you can understand the concern this assignment has given me. Expecting that this will be my last opportunity to stand at this pulpit and speak to you brethren of the priesthood, my thoughts have been led to address a subject that some may find discomforting. As King Benjamin of old said, so plead I for each one of us. I quote:“Open your ears that ye may hear, and your hearts that ye may understand, and your minds that the mysteries of God may be unfolded to your view” It is my hope that we will be taught by the Spirit tonight.In  we read, “And again I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and  (emphasis added).My thoughts will center on our sometimes innocent involvement in one of the terrible, unclean things referred to by this ancient prophet. Satan, the very devil and the father of all lies, has slyly and slowly lowered the social norms of morality to a tragic and destructive level. In magazines and books, on CDs and tapes, on our television and theater screens is portrayed more and more often a lifestyle that might even rival the excesses of those who lived in Sodom and Gomorrah. The screens, music, and printed materials, etc., are filled with a profusion of sex, nudity, and vulgarity.One of the great tragedies is that too many men and boys who hold the priesthood of God are watching and listening to this type of so-called entertainment. Some do it only casually at first. They think they are spiritually strong and will be immune to its influence. This trash is nothing more nor less than pornography dressed in one of its many imitation robes of splendor—one of the master counterfeiter’s best products.Part of the tragedy I speak of is that many men and boys do not recognize they are trapped or soon will be. Unfortunately, I fear even some within the sound of my voice have an addiction and do not realize it. They see this as a form of entertainment that serves as a relief from the troubles of the day. In point of fact and in reality,  and their capacity to draw on the powers of heaven in times of need.We must come to understand fully the consequences of having an appetite for such entertainment. Fathers and mothers must warn their children and make them aware of the eternal penalty. No man or boy of us here tonight can look at, read about, or listen to such explicit vulgarity, even in its mildest form, without bringing sorrow to a loving God and a terrible injury to one’s own spirit. We cannot look at or listen to these unholy depictions in our own living room or wherever they are shown without suffering the consequences—and those consequences are very real.We must remember, our rewards for righteous living are only partially enjoyed in this mortal life. Likewise, our miseries for breaking the commandments of God will not all be realized fully as we live here on the earth. Eternity is a long, long time.Brethren, I plead with you to leave it alone. Stay away from any movie, video, publication, or music——where illicit behavior and expressions are a part of the action. Have the courage to turn it off in your living room. Throw the tapes and the publications in the garbage can, for that is where we keep garbage.The Doctrine and Covenants gives a warning and a promise. The promise says that “if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things” In an application of this scripture today, it is my understanding that anytime we look at or listen to the kind of material we have been speaking of—even in its mildest form—the light inside of us grows dimmer because the darkness inside increases. The effect of this is that we cannot think as clearly on life’s challenges—be they business, church, school, family, or personal—because the channel to the source of all light for the solving of problems is cluttered with various unclean images. Our entitlement to personal revelation on any subject is severely restricted. We don’t do as well in school or at work. We are left more on our own, and as a result we make more mistakes and we are not as happy. Remember, our mind is a wonderful instrument. It will record and keep whatever we put into it, both trash and beauty. When we see or hear anything filthy or vulgar, whatever the source, our mind records it, and as it makes the filthy record, beauty and clean thoughts are pushed into the background. Hope and faith in Christ begin to fade, and more and more, turmoil and discontent become our companions.Brothers, sisters, and parents are not as happy together as they used to be. We find less peace and contentedness in our hearts and homes. We do things that later we wish we had not done. Contention looms its vicious head, and when contention is present, the Spirit of Christ departs from us.Again I say, leave it alone. Turn it off, walk away from it, burn it, erase it, destroy it. I know it is hard counsel we give when we say movies that are R-rated, and many with PG-13 ratings, are produced by satanic influences. Our standards should not be dictated by the rating system. I repeat, because of what they  represent, these types of movies, music, tapes, etc. serve the purposes of the author of all darkness.Brethren, let’s consider again why we cannot be involved in Satan’s program of entertainment and be held guiltless. Why? Because and that makes us different from all others. When we’ve made a covenant with the Lord, we are special—not ordinary, but special. He loves all of his sons, The Lord has told us in holy writ that before we ever came to this earth we were all called to hold his priesthood and bear up his work here. It isn’t a small, insignificant task we have. He  hold us responsible for our portion of the labor.Now, if you have this problem we speak of, let me give you hope and a plan of attack. If you are young, go to your parents or your bishop for help. Both young and older must go to the Lord. Stopping the activity and cleansing the spirit of the impurities of which we’ve been speaking will not be easy, and it will not be quick, but it can be sure. I quote from a talk given at this pulpit several years ago.“The secret to cleansing our spirit of whatever the impurity is not very complicated. It begins with [sincere, heartfelt] prayer every morning and ends with prayer every night. This is the most important step I know in the cleansing process. It may simply be a prayer for strength to turn from bad habits,” or a prayer that sin will be distasteful to you ( Nov. 1980, p. 39).Meanwhile, remember that not all prayers are answered the same day or even the next day. Sometimes it takes a long time. But “with this step in place, I have seen hundreds of miracles take place. Without it, there is continued frustration, unhappiness, ineffectiveness, and despair” (ibid.).If you have tried and have given up, I plead with you to try again and again and again. Our Heavenly Father will not forsake your efforts if you persist.The second step in this plan of attack is to gain an added measure of spiritual strength through a daily study of the scriptures. Your study need not be long, but it should be every day. If I were you, I would read the scriptures tonight and never let a day pass without reading in them, even if only for a few minutes. There is an added measure of inspiration promised to those who read the scriptures regularly (ibid.).The scriptures will assist us to overpower darkness with light.The third step that I would counsel is: when necessary, receive the blessing that comes in the confession process. Too many are harboring the inner feeling of guilt resulting from unrepented mistakes. Part of the repentance process is confession. If you happen to be one of those who has this need, I plead with you to go see your bishop before the sun sets tomorrow.I testify that the Savior is at the head of this work. May I echo the words that great prophet Moroni offered in his farewell address:“Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the grace of God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in nowise deny the power of God” Of him I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.