My message today is one of love. I love my dear companion, Mary, my two sons, and their families. May I express appreciation for all the joy they have brought into my life.As I think about these relationships with my own family, I cannot help but return to the example I received from my own parents. Our children will remember us by our example. From my earliest childhood, I remember experiences which taught me about the priesthood which I hold and to respect and love the relationship my father and mother had with one another.My father taught me respect for the priesthood. While serving in the Aaronic Priesthood, we passed the sacrament using stainless steel sacrament trays which, as a result of spilled water, were often dulled with hard water spots. As a holder of the Aaronic Priesthood, I was responsible for helping to prepare the sacrament. Father asked me to bring home the trays, and together we cleaned them with steel wool until every tray sparkled. When I passed the sacrament, I knew we had participated in making the sacrament ordinance a little more sacred.On vacations, Father would take us to historical sites that were prominent in Church history to build our knowledge and testimonies.On one occasion, when I was a twelve-year-old deacon, Father asked if I would like to go to the baseball hall of fame in Cooperstown, New York, and to the Hill Cumorah Pageant near Palmyra, New York. This is where Joseph Smith was led to the golden plates which were later translated into the Book of Mormon. Father also took me to the Sacred Grove, where Joseph Smith had prayed to Heavenly Father and was visited in a vision by God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. We prayed together in the grove and expressed our desire to be true and faithful to the priesthood which we held. Father later painted a picture of the place where we had prayed and gave it to me as a reminder of our promises made that day together. It hangs in my office today and serves as a reminder each day of my sacred experience and promises made with my earthly father as well as my Heavenly Father.On another occasion, Father took me to the Susquehanna River, where, in 1829, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the Aaronic Priesthood from a visitation of John the Baptist. Father explained that the restoration of the priesthood was one of the most significant events in this dispensation.I learned respect for womanhood from my father’s tender caring for my mother, my sister, and his sisters. Father was the first to arise from dinner to clear the table. My sister and I would wash and dry the dishes each night at Father’s request. If we were not there, Father and Mother would clean the kitchen together.In later years, after Mother had a stroke, Father faithfully cared for her every need. The last two years of her life required 24-hour care, he being called by Mother every few minutes, day or night. I shall never forget his example of loving care for his cherished companion. He told me it was small payment for over fifty years of my mother’s loving devotion to him.Father was a commercial artist for a large advertising agency in New York City. On one occasion he was under tremendous stress to produce an advertising campaign. He had come home on a Friday evening and worked most of the night. Saturday morning, after a few hours working in the yard, he retired to his studio to create an advertising campaign for a new product. My sister and I found great delight in chasing each other round and round the dining room table, which was situated in a room directly over his head. He had told us to please stop at least twice, but to no avail. This time he came bounding up the steps and collared me. He sat me down and taught a great lesson. He did not yell or strike me even though he was very annoyed.He explained the creative process, the spiritual process, if you will, and the need for quiet pondering and getting close to the Spirit for his creativity to function. Because he took time to explain and help me understand, I learned a lesson that has been put to use almost daily in my life.My point in telling these stories is that we, as parents, have the privilege and the responsibility of teaching gospel principles by our example and testimony to our loved ones.My father has been gone for seven years, but I remember him with love and respect. Examples become memories that guide our lives:May the memories our children have guide their lives.Now I find myself asking the question, “How will my children remember me?” How will your children remember you?The calling of father or mother is sacred and carries with it great significance. One of the greatest privileges and responsibilities given to us is that of being a parent—helping to bring to earth a child of God and having the sacred responsibility to love, care, and guide children back to our Heavenly Father. In many ways earthly parents represent their Heavenly Father in the process of nurturing, loving, caring, and teaching children. Children naturally look to their parents to learn of the characteristics of their Heavenly Father. After they come to love, respect, and have confidence in their earthly parents, they often unknowingly develop the same feelings towards their Heavenly Father.No parent on earth is perfect. In fact, children are very understanding when they sense and feel that parents truly care and are attempting to be the best they can be.It helps children to see that good parents can have differing opinions, and that these differences can be worked out without striking, yelling, or throwing things. They need to see and feel calm communication with respect for each other’s viewpoints so they themselves will know how to work through differences in their own lives.Parents are counseled to teach their children by precept and example. The Lord has said:“Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. …“And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord” Children who are taught to pray and who pray with their parents when young are more likely to pray when they are older. Those who are taught when they are young to love God and believe He lives will more often continue their spiritual development and increase their feelings of love as they mature.However, a child, even one raised with great love and care and carefully taught, may choose, when an adult, not to follow those teachings for a variety of reasons. How should we react? We understand and respect the principle of agency. We pray that life’s experiences will help them regain their desire and ability to live the gospel. They are still our children, and we will love and care about them always. We do not lock the doors of our house nor the doors to our heart.Some people feel they cannot accept or fulfill a Church calling if one of their children is straying. As we accept the calling and do our best, we may have a profound spiritual effect on those we love the most. If we think other families don’t have any difficulties or any problems, we just don’t know them well enough.If the example we have received from our parents was not good, it is our responsibility to break the cycle.Certainly parents will make mistakes in their parenting process, but through humility, faith, prayer, and study, each person can learn a better way and in so doing bless the lives of family members now and teach correct traditions for the generations that follow.The Lord’s promises are sure: “I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go”  And again: “Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given unto you” Selfishness is so frequently at the core of family relationship problems. When individuals focus on their own selfish interests, they miss opportunities to listen, to understand, or to consider the other person’s feelings or needs.President Benson has cautioned us:“We must be more Christlike in our attitude and behavior than what we see in the world. We should be as charitable and considerate with our loved ones as Christ is with us. He is kind, loving, and patient with each of us. Should we not reciprocate the same love to our [companions] and children? …“‘What manner of men ought we to be?’ You remember the Lord’s answer is this: ‘Verily I say unto you, ’  ( Nov. 1983, p. 44).President Benson continues:“As I have listened to … reports [of unrighteous actions], I have asked myself, ‘How can any member of the Church—any man who holds the priesthood of God—be guilty of cruelty to his own wife and children?’“Such actions, if practiced by a priesthood holder, are almost inconceivable. They are totally out of character with the teachings of the Church and the gospel of Jesus Christ.“As priesthood holders, we are to emulate the character of the Savior” ( Nov. 1983, p. 42).Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants teaches us, “No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned” These qualities of kindness and pure knowledge are reflective of our Heavenly Father.We get an insight into the love Jesus had for His Father, our Father in Heaven, in Jesus’ intercessory prayer, recorded in the Bible, seventeenth chapter of John. The suffering and the atoning sacrifice were nigh at hand.“These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. …“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou has sent” Jesus acknowledged He was with His Father before coming to earth and the love they had for each other. He said:“O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was … , that [the world] may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me … : for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world” It is touching to me that Jesus closes His prayer with a desire that we might know and love our Father as He does, even though we can’t remember Him in our mortal estate.Jesus prayed,“O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these [disciples] have known that thou hast sent me” Jesus was able to complete his mission of the Atonement on earth because of the knowledge, example, and love of His Father. Likewise, may each of us, as parents and especially as brethren in the priesthood, through our example, love, and care, be remembered by our children to have the qualities that our Heavenly Father and our Savior have, that we may endure to the end and some day return with our families to their celestial presence I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I pray for the Spirit of the Lord while I speak to you on this sacred occasion.President Ezra Taft Benson is the only one who exercises all the keys of the kingdom. In addition, we sustain fourteen others as prophets, seers, and revelators. President Benson’s mighty influence is felt in many ways. His timely and inspired counsel to read the precious Book of Mormon brought an added appreciation of this sacred scripture to all who followed his direction.A few weeks ago I witnessed President Benson’s radiating power in a sacred room in the Salt Lake Temple when a granddaughter of his was married. As he came into the room, I observed his infirmities of age because he is ninety-four years old. All stood to honor him as the prophet and President of the Church. He brought with him a great spirit of warmth, love, and peace.In this day of confusion and anxiety about the well-being of our nation and the entire world, we should pay attention to the exemplary and noble life of President Benson and to his writings and sermons as President of the Church.I would like today to emphasize the divinity of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ (see We live in a day when Lucifer’s influence is greater than we ever have known in our lifetimes. In terms of the sin, evil, and wickedness upon the earth, we could liken our time to the days of Noah before the flood. No one is immune to affliction and difficulty, whether it be economical, emotional, or spiritual. Immorality, violence, and divorce, with their accompanying sorrows, plague society worldwide.The only way to find peace, happiness, and security and to overcome the evils of the world and temptations of this generation is in the gospel of Jesus Christ.Jesus is the head of his church, the Creator of the universe, the Savior and Redeemer of all mankind, and the Judge of the souls of men. Who he is and what he does affected each of us before we were born and will affect us each day of our mortal lives and throughout the eternities. Much of what he is and does is beyond finite human ability to comprehend, but the Holy Ghost has borne witness to my soul of their reality.I am grateful to know that our Lord and Savior stands at the head of this church and directs it through his servants. This is the Lord’s church; it is not a church of men. The Brethren of its presiding councils are called of God; their only motive is to serve according to his will in humility “with all [their] heart, might, mind and strength” The Church bears his name because it is his church. He commanded the Nephites to “call the church in my name. …For if a church be called … in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel” To the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord revealed that in the last days his restored church should be called The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (see The Lord told Moses when they spoke together face to face on a high mountain: “Worlds without number have I created; … by the Son I created them. …“But only an account of this earth … give I unto you. … There are many worlds … that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them” This brief passage of scripture gives a slight glimpse of the immensity and grandeur of our Lord as Creator. A modern astronomer gives further insight: “The Cosmos is all that is or ever was or ever will be. … The size and age of the Cosmos are beyond ordinary human understanding. … The dimensions of the Cosmos are so large that … familiar units of distance … make little sense. Instead, we measure distance with the speed of light. In one second a beam of light travels 186,000 miles. … In a year, it crosses … about six trillion miles. … That unit of length, the distance light goes in a year, is called a light-year. It measures not time but distances—enormous distances. …“… The Cosmos is mostly empty. … Worlds are precious. …“A galaxy is composed of gas and dust and stars—billions upon billions of stars. Every star may be a sun to someone. … There are some hundred billion … galaxies, each with, on the average, a hundred billion stars. … We are hard pressed to find even the cluster in which our Milky Way Galaxy is embedded, much less the Sun or the Earth. …“… The Milky Way contains some 400 billion stars of all sorts moving with a complex and orderly grace. Of all the stars, the inhabitants of Earth know close-up, so far, but one.”In a conversation between God and Moses, God said:“For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  God said also: “Mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior” The immortality and eternal life of man is brought to pass by the atonement of Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer. It is “the most transcendent act that ever has occurred or ever will occur among the children of the Father.” It is an act of love for which we should be more grateful than for any other blessing or gift of God. The Atonement provides immortality to every person; immortality is infinite and universal. It provides the opportunity for eternal life, the kind of life that God lives, to those who have faith in Christ, repent of their sins, and obey the laws of the gospel. In a miraculous way, the Atonement saves and redeems us from the effects of the fall of Adam, both temporal death at the end of mortality and spiritual death, the separation from our Father.Only Jesus, because he is the Only Begotten Son, could make the infinite and eternal atonement so we can be at one with our Heavenly Father. When Jesus was born into mortality, his parents were God the Eternal Father (see  and Mary, whom Nephi saw in a heavenly vision as “a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins”  He is God’s Only Begotten Son, the only one who ever has or ever will be born on earth of such parentage. Because of his mortal nature, inherited from his mother, he had “the power of mortality, which is the power to die, … to separate body and spirit.” Because of his divine nature, inherited from his Father, he had “the power of immortality, which is the power to live forever; or, having chosen to die, … to rise again in immortality.” The Savior said: “I lay down my life, that I might take it again.“No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again” “It was because of … this intermixture of the divine and the mortal in one person, that our Lord was able to work out the infinite and eternal atonement. … He had power to live or to die, as he chose, and having laid down his life, he had power to take it again, and then, in a way incomprehensible to us, to pass on the effects of that resurrection to all men so that all shall rise from the tomb.”At the time of the Second Coming, Jesus will judge the souls of all mankind in an inevitable judgment. In the gospel of John we read:“The Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son: …“The Father … hath … given to the Son … authority to execute judgment. …“For the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,“And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation”  The prophet Mormon wrote: “Ye must all stand before the judgment-seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human family of Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they be good or evil”  We read in Matthew:“When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:“And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:“And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.“Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: …“Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels” Considering all that Jesus is and all he does for us, what should we be doing to show our appreciation? We should go far beyond knowing  Jesus and  his attributes and mission. We should come to “know … the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent”  “It is one thing to know about God and another to know him. We know about him when we learn that he is a personal being in whose image man is created; when we learn that the Son is in the express image of his Father’s person; when we learn that both the Father and the Son possess certain [specific] attributes and powers. But we know them, in the sense of gaining eternal life, when we enjoy and experience the same things they do. To know God is to think what he thinks, to feel what he feels, to have the power he possesses, to comprehend the truths he understands, and to do what he does. Those who know God become like him, and have his kind of life, which is eternal life.” In other words, to possess a knowledge of Christ, we must become as he is. We become “partakers of the divine nature”  He instructed his Nephite disciples: “What manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am” One underlying principle runs throughout the Savior’s life, mission, and teachings: We are to love one another. He said to his disciples:“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another”  He said also:“If ye love me, keep my commandments” Imagine for a moment the result if everyone were to love one another as Jesus loves his disciples. We would have no bickering, quarreling, strife, or contention in our homes. We would not offend or insult one another either verbally or in any other way. We would not have unnecessary litigation over small matters. War would be impossible, especially war waged in the name of religion.We have numerous testimonies of the reality and divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. From the time of Adam, the ancient prophets, including the brother of Jared, knew the Savior in his spirit form as Jehovah. During his life on earth, his disciples in Palestine walked and talked with him. They were with him as he taught, when he performed miracles, when he was crucified, and after his resurrection. Peter wrote:“For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty”  When the resurrected Lord visited and taught the Nephites, “he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world” In our day, the Father and the Son visited the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. Of this visit Joseph wrote: “I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—”  When the Savior accepted the Kirtland Temple as his house, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery “saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit. …His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying:I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father”  In a heavenly vision, the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon saw and conversed with Jesus Christ and gave this account:“After the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father” I was fortunate as a young boy attending ward testimony meetings to hear the fervent testimonies of older ward members. Now I counsel you who are more mature spiritually to bear your witness of the truth of the gospel; of the reality of the Savior and his love for each of us; and of the divine calling of his prophets, seers, and revelators. Your witness will develop testimonies in younger people as the members of my ward did in me. Parents should bear testimony frequently to strengthen conviction in the hearts of their children.I am humbly grateful to be one of the “special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world”  I know that he lives. He is with us, and we can feel his influence in our lives if we are obedient, conform to his teachings, and are prayerful. He wants each of us and the Church to succeed and wants members of the Church to carry his teachings to the world. The Church is the structure through which he can give to the world his message of hope, the hope of salvation, the right to live with our Heavenly Father and his Beloved Son forever. Our Heavenly Father lives and loves each of his children. I testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, as are each of his successors through President Ezra Taft Benson, our present prophet. I bear this witness in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.