I pray for the Spirit of the Lord while I speak to you on this sacred occasion.President Ezra Taft Benson is the only one who exercises all the keys of the kingdom. In addition, we sustain fourteen others as prophets, seers, and revelators. President Benson’s mighty influence is felt in many ways. His timely and inspired counsel to read the precious Book of Mormon brought an added appreciation of this sacred scripture to all who followed his direction.A few weeks ago I witnessed President Benson’s radiating power in a sacred room in the Salt Lake Temple when a granddaughter of his was married. As he came into the room, I observed his infirmities of age because he is ninety-four years old. All stood to honor him as the prophet and President of the Church. He brought with him a great spirit of warmth, love, and peace.In this day of confusion and anxiety about the well-being of our nation and the entire world, we should pay attention to the exemplary and noble life of President Benson and to his writings and sermons as President of the Church.I would like today to emphasize the divinity of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ (see We live in a day when Lucifer’s influence is greater than we ever have known in our lifetimes. In terms of the sin, evil, and wickedness upon the earth, we could liken our time to the days of Noah before the flood. No one is immune to affliction and difficulty, whether it be economical, emotional, or spiritual. Immorality, violence, and divorce, with their accompanying sorrows, plague society worldwide.The only way to find peace, happiness, and security and to overcome the evils of the world and temptations of this generation is in the gospel of Jesus Christ.Jesus is the head of his church, the Creator of the universe, the Savior and Redeemer of all mankind, and the Judge of the souls of men. Who he is and what he does affected each of us before we were born and will affect us each day of our mortal lives and throughout the eternities. Much of what he is and does is beyond finite human ability to comprehend, but the Holy Ghost has borne witness to my soul of their reality.I am grateful to know that our Lord and Savior stands at the head of this church and directs it through his servants. This is the Lord’s church; it is not a church of men. The Brethren of its presiding councils are called of God; their only motive is to serve according to his will in humility “with all [their] heart, might, mind and strength” The Church bears his name because it is his church. He commanded the Nephites to “call the church in my name. …For if a church be called … in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel” To the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord revealed that in the last days his restored church should be called The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (see The Lord told Moses when they spoke together face to face on a high mountain: “Worlds without number have I created; … by the Son I created them. …“But only an account of this earth … give I unto you. … There are many worlds … that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them” This brief passage of scripture gives a slight glimpse of the immensity and grandeur of our Lord as Creator. A modern astronomer gives further insight: “The Cosmos is all that is or ever was or ever will be. … The size and age of the Cosmos are beyond ordinary human understanding. … The dimensions of the Cosmos are so large that … familiar units of distance … make little sense. Instead, we measure distance with the speed of light. In one second a beam of light travels 186,000 miles. … In a year, it crosses … about six trillion miles. … That unit of length, the distance light goes in a year, is called a light-year. It measures not time but distances—enormous distances. …“… The Cosmos is mostly empty. … Worlds are precious. …“A galaxy is composed of gas and dust and stars—billions upon billions of stars. Every star may be a sun to someone. … There are some hundred billion … galaxies, each with, on the average, a hundred billion stars. … We are hard pressed to find even the cluster in which our Milky Way Galaxy is embedded, much less the Sun or the Earth. …“… The Milky Way contains some 400 billion stars of all sorts moving with a complex and orderly grace. Of all the stars, the inhabitants of Earth know close-up, so far, but one.”In a conversation between God and Moses, God said:“For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man”  God said also: “Mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Savior” The immortality and eternal life of man is brought to pass by the atonement of Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer. It is “the most transcendent act that ever has occurred or ever will occur among the children of the Father.” It is an act of love for which we should be more grateful than for any other blessing or gift of God. The Atonement provides immortality to every person; immortality is infinite and universal. It provides the opportunity for eternal life, the kind of life that God lives, to those who have faith in Christ, repent of their sins, and obey the laws of the gospel. In a miraculous way, the Atonement saves and redeems us from the effects of the fall of Adam, both temporal death at the end of mortality and spiritual death, the separation from our Father.Only Jesus, because he is the Only Begotten Son, could make the infinite and eternal atonement so we can be at one with our Heavenly Father. When Jesus was born into mortality, his parents were God the Eternal Father (see  and Mary, whom Nephi saw in a heavenly vision as “a virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins”  He is God’s Only Begotten Son, the only one who ever has or ever will be born on earth of such parentage. Because of his mortal nature, inherited from his mother, he had “the power of mortality, which is the power to die, … to separate body and spirit.” Because of his divine nature, inherited from his Father, he had “the power of immortality, which is the power to live forever; or, having chosen to die, … to rise again in immortality.” The Savior said: “I lay down my life, that I might take it again.“No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again” “It was because of … this intermixture of the divine and the mortal in one person, that our Lord was able to work out the infinite and eternal atonement. … He had power to live or to die, as he chose, and having laid down his life, he had power to take it again, and then, in a way incomprehensible to us, to pass on the effects of that resurrection to all men so that all shall rise from the tomb.”At the time of the Second Coming, Jesus will judge the souls of all mankind in an inevitable judgment. In the gospel of John we read:“The Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son: …“The Father … hath … given to the Son … authority to execute judgment. …“For the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,“And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation”  The prophet Mormon wrote: “Ye must all stand before the judgment-seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human family of Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they be good or evil”  We read in Matthew:“When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:“And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:“And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.“Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: …“Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels” Considering all that Jesus is and all he does for us, what should we be doing to show our appreciation? We should go far beyond knowing  Jesus and  his attributes and mission. We should come to “know … the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent”  “It is one thing to know about God and another to know him. We know about him when we learn that he is a personal being in whose image man is created; when we learn that the Son is in the express image of his Father’s person; when we learn that both the Father and the Son possess certain [specific] attributes and powers. But we know them, in the sense of gaining eternal life, when we enjoy and experience the same things they do. To know God is to think what he thinks, to feel what he feels, to have the power he possesses, to comprehend the truths he understands, and to do what he does. Those who know God become like him, and have his kind of life, which is eternal life.” In other words, to possess a knowledge of Christ, we must become as he is. We become “partakers of the divine nature”  He instructed his Nephite disciples: “What manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am” One underlying principle runs throughout the Savior’s life, mission, and teachings: We are to love one another. He said to his disciples:“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another”  He said also:“If ye love me, keep my commandments” Imagine for a moment the result if everyone were to love one another as Jesus loves his disciples. We would have no bickering, quarreling, strife, or contention in our homes. We would not offend or insult one another either verbally or in any other way. We would not have unnecessary litigation over small matters. War would be impossible, especially war waged in the name of religion.We have numerous testimonies of the reality and divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ. From the time of Adam, the ancient prophets, including the brother of Jared, knew the Savior in his spirit form as Jehovah. During his life on earth, his disciples in Palestine walked and talked with him. They were with him as he taught, when he performed miracles, when he was crucified, and after his resurrection. Peter wrote:“For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty”  When the resurrected Lord visited and taught the Nephites, “he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world” In our day, the Father and the Son visited the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. Of this visit Joseph wrote: “I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—”  When the Savior accepted the Kirtland Temple as his house, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery “saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit. …His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying:I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father”  In a heavenly vision, the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon saw and conversed with Jesus Christ and gave this account:“After the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father” I was fortunate as a young boy attending ward testimony meetings to hear the fervent testimonies of older ward members. Now I counsel you who are more mature spiritually to bear your witness of the truth of the gospel; of the reality of the Savior and his love for each of us; and of the divine calling of his prophets, seers, and revelators. Your witness will develop testimonies in younger people as the members of my ward did in me. Parents should bear testimony frequently to strengthen conviction in the hearts of their children.I am humbly grateful to be one of the “special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world”  I know that he lives. He is with us, and we can feel his influence in our lives if we are obedient, conform to his teachings, and are prayerful. He wants each of us and the Church to succeed and wants members of the Church to carry his teachings to the world. The Church is the structure through which he can give to the world his message of hope, the hope of salvation, the right to live with our Heavenly Father and his Beloved Son forever. Our Heavenly Father lives and loves each of his children. I testify that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, as are each of his successors through President Ezra Taft Benson, our present prophet. I bear this witness in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear sisters, I want to share with you my feelings for the gospel and my love for my Father in Heaven. What a blessing to be together, to speak of the things that really matter, to know that we are united in this great work.We are here today not because of what we do but because of who we are—daughters of our Father in Heaven. We value such definition for we are women of covenant. Our covenants hold great significance because we have made them with the Lord. They act as a fortification against the powers of opposition, a reinforcement and reminder of why we are here. Women and men in this church bear testimony to the world that this life is the time to prepare to meet God. Even though we live in very difficult and challenging times, we are on the path to eternal life, and we cannot afford to be delayed or deterred.In Proverbs we read the admonition, “Ponder the path of thy feet”  We have busy feet in this church. We do much. We have all heard the counsel to “be anxiously engaged” and then the qualifier “in a good cause” It is that “good cause” I address tonight.To be a woman of covenant is a sacred and holy responsibility. It is uniquely ours. It is not by chance that we are on the Lord’s errand at this time. It is by choice that we came to this earth to follow the path of the Savior. At baptism, we covenanted, as did the Nephites at the waters of Mormon, to be called his people, to serve him, to keep his commandments, to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things and in all places (see Our covenant to follow Christ is in sharp contrast to many whose voices fill the newspapers, whose new morality blankets the screens, and whose values, while being updated, have become uprooted.As women of covenant we seek exaltation and the peace that attends eternal life in the kingdom of heaven. With that resolve comes the quiet reassurance that speaks softly to our souls and reaffirms to us that peace and love, hope and gentility, reverence, joy, and obedience bring about change and good works. Indeed we stand before the world today to rejoice—not in the power of men and women—but in the goodness of God.Sisters, the time is past when we can merely believe. We must be passionate in our beliefs. Women hunger for things of the Spirit. One of the primary reasons women attend Relief Society is to be spiritually nourished, to learn more of God’s teachings. Our personal testimonies, growing as all of them are, champion our cause to “Come unto Christ” [see Today we see all around us the adversary at work—and he is succeeding. He has twisted truths to his purposes, and throngs have followed. Either we are holding fast to the iron rod or, perhaps, unconsciously, we are letting go by just a few fingers and are slowly slipping away. “Not me,” you might say, but none of us is exempt. Nor are we immune to sidesteps in a frantic rush to do it all, the desire to have it all, and the justification to need it all—now. Satan is ruthless, and his efforts are never ending.Eliza R. Snow said: “We stand in a different position … ; we have made covenant with God, we understand his order” ( Sept. 1871, p. 578). These covenants include the counsel to Emma Smith recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants to “lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better” I am dedicated to that charge.The path, straight and narrow, was marked by Jesus Christ. Isaiah called it the “highway … of holiness”  I testify to you today that the Lord has trusted the women of this church with most-sacred works on the path to perfection.I heard from a mother of five small children in South Carolina. She had injured her back and was totally bedfast. She wrote to me of the “little mercy squads” in her ward who had cared for her night and day: “They fed me, conquered my mending pile, cleared the tears from my eyes, and administered therapy in the night. All the time they assured me it was no bother; they just wanted to learn more charity and just needed someone to practice on.”There are times when we do have helping hands and times when there are no hands except the Lord’s hands.A 93-year-old sister in Idaho describes her path with, “I have had happiness and much trouble, much sorrow.” Our experiences help us understand where she’s been. Though our Lord Jesus Christ could have called down the powers of heaven, his paths were often solitary and his agony—in the end—borne by him alone.Christ’s cause was singular and focused, for he proclaimed, “I came into the world to do the will of my Father”  And so must we. Our willingness to take seriously our covenants brings comfort amid sorrows, joy amid pain, blessings amid suffering.All around the Church are wonderful women who exert great influence. Sisters, we have much to share: our spiritual strength, our sense of purpose, our commitment to the gospel, our blessings as a result of the holy priesthood. Look closely with me at these four areas where we make such a difference.
	
      We have within us the Spirit of the Lord to guide us on the path of righteousness. Daily, we choose between temptation and sanctification. We seek spiritual moments as we read the scriptures. We pray and carry that prayer in our hearts. We know the peace that comes from hearing not applause or an answering machine but that still small voice that whispers ever so softly. We listen less to the world and more to the promptings from on high.Remember that the spirit is not the same as self. The spirit is not enhanced by selfishness, self-pity, self-pride, and self-deception. “To be spiritually-minded is life eternal” Our spirituality is also recharged by each other. Show charity for each other. Show understanding, not judgment; kindness, not blame; joy, not envy. Love as the Lord loves.I think of the small group of sisters in Bangalore, India, who meet together only once a month as Relief Society. The other weeks they meet individually in small groups in homes. I visited with them last year and quickly recognized how the Spirit of the Lord embraced that little band of women. When their thirty-year-old president, a convert of two years, introduced me and bore testimony of the blessings of the sisterhood of Relief Society, I was touched by the love felt for one another. They are women of God. I could feel his Spirit then just as I feel it with us tonight.
	
      The Old Testament prophet Micah said, “For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, … we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever” How, in this complex world, do we walk in the name of the Lord, our God, when questions of home, family, marriage, work, children, age, and death play so much a part of our day-to-day experiences? How do we think like the Lord when we are low, wisely when we are weary, feel patient when we are pressured and respected when we are rejected?Sisters, turn to the Lord. He cares so deeply for our happiness and our well-being. Talk with him earnestly and often, and your answers will come.Next, look at your priorities. As women of covenant we must hold close to our hearts the things that really matter. Homes, families, and people matter. For those who have young and growing children, they are our first priority. I am not speaking of maintenance, not the wash, not the windows. I am speaking of loving our children and teaching them righteous principles. I am speaking of a willing heart that puts the eternal needs of children in our charge ahead of our own personal style. I’m talking about the pain when a child has strayed from the path and we lead that child back one step at a time.As a young mother I remember saying to my youngest son, Gordon, when he fell from his bike and faced not only skinned knees but the loss of confidence as well, “I’m right here.” I would say as I put my arms around him to comfort him, “I’m right here.” Doesn’t that remind us of the Lord, who is with us always? (see  He’s not just at church, in the temple, or when we kneel at our bed. He’s “right here” when we live by his teachings.
	
      I witnessed commitment when I visited with a sister in her home in the Philippines. She had nothing by the standards of the world. Her family of eight children lived clustered in a two-room nipa hut that stood on stilts. After climbing the ladder to the door, I was taken immediately to a corner where on a small table sat a portable sewing machine. This was not a new model with 320 stitches, bells, whistles, and a serger. It was a machine older than my mother’s! But she was not showing off a possession; she was sharing her commitment. For two years, she had sewn for others on that simple machine to earn the money to take her family to the temple so that they would be sealed together. The last child, she said with a smile, was born under the covenant.She was committed to her covenants, and she valued the blessings of the priesthood that came into her life because of her faithfulness. She did not stop at baptism, for she understood, where “much is given much is required”  By her efforts, her family was sealed—forever. Imagine their joy!
	
      We have the blessings of the priesthood in these latter days to help us see clearly and act accordingly. As disciples of Christ we are blessed with more than common sense, good ideas, and righteous inclinations. We must always remember that “Jesus Christ is the great High Priest of God; Christ is therefore the source of all true priesthood authority and power on this earth” ( New York: Macmillan, 1992, p. 1133).We know what it is to place our faith, our prayers, our confidence, and our esteem in those whom God has appointed to lead. The Lord has told us that “whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same” I want you to know that I, as the general president of the Relief Society, embrace the blessings that come from serving under the direction of leaders who hold the priesthood. We must stand united as a people for the Lord to call us one. Elder John A. Widtsoe spoke of men and women yoked together in their joint devotion to righteous principles when he said: “In the ordinances of the Priesthood man and woman share alike. … In the Church of Christ, woman is not an adjunct to, but an equal partner with man” ( June-July 1943, p. 373).Women and men have available every priesthood blessing essential for salvation—the blessings of being baptized, receiving the Holy Ghost, renewing our covenants through taking the sacrament, and making and keeping temple covenants. As women of covenant, we know and understand the guidance in the Doctrine and Covenants, which is counsel for women as well as for men: “Their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson—“… the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness” Now, once again, may I say, “Ponder the path of thy feet”   Look to the Lord for direction and guidance as my choice counselors and this faithful sister have testified here tonight.Ponder the direct message from an Apostle of Jesus Christ. Elder M. Russell Ballard has counseled us not to judge others. We were reminded that each of us has the privilege to carefully and prayerfully seek the Lord’s will, just for us, regarding life’s challenges. Further, he reminded us that this is God’s plan and it is not our prerogative to alter or tamper with it.I ask that each of you take to heart these messages and know that they come from the Lord through his servants. To their testimonies I add my own. I know that we, daughters of the Most High God, are here to do the Lord’s will in an era most difficult, yet at a time that the angels of God rejoice in our efforts. I know that the Lord reigns supreme and that he has prepared a place for us in his kingdom on high. I know that as women of covenant we will choose that path to life eternal. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.