“The Lord declared that it is his work and his glory ‘to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.’  He has established his Church to help in this great work. Accordingly, the Church’s mission is to ‘invite all to come unto Christ’  and ‘be perfected in him’  ( 1990, p. 3.)I would like to discuss at least in part what The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints asks people to do when it invites them “to come unto Christ.” It should be understood this invitation is not a request to participate in a single event, but to participate in a process.This process leads individuals to eternal life, which “is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation.” How do we begin this most exciting and important process? The Book of Mormon records the events that occurred when Christ, following his resurrection, visited the people of Nephi in the land Bountiful. So important was this event that his Father introduced him, saying, “Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—”  emphasis added.)From this introduction we learn the first required action:  If we are to come unto Christ, we must first listen to him. We must learn who he is. Following his Father’s introduction, he told the people:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.” He then invited them to come forth, one by one and “see with their eyes and … feel with their hands.”  These people experienced personal knowledge of who he was. However, Jesus reminded them that coming to him through faith is even more acceptable.“And again,  are they who shall believe in your words because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they who shall believe in your words.”  emphasis added.)We are fortunate to have the scriptures, which contain the words of ancient Apostles and prophets, and to have the privilege of listening to modern-day Apostles and prophets testify of Christ.What were the next words Jesus gave to the people in Bountiful? Think of all he could have said. He is the creator of this earth and countless others; he had just wrought the infinite atonement; he had just broken the bonds of death; he had just visited with his Father in Heaven. He could have discussed many, many wonderful and important subjects, but he chose to teach his doctrine, which is:“And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.“Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them.” Not only did the Lord teach the need for baptism, but he called special disciples and gave them power to baptize. He also taught them the correct manner of baptism.Clearly, it is vital, on the journey to eternal life, to exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repent of our sins, and be baptized in the proper manner, by those holding the proper authority and using the proper prayer. After this kind of baptism we can “be visited with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and … receive a remission of … sins.”  However, in order to progress we must yield “to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.” As we come unto Christ, we must surrender our worldly ways, our pride, and our selfishness. As we yield to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we should experience a “mighty change in [our] hearts”  and become willing to submit to or accept “all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [us]” Life is often difficult. There are trials, disappointments, challenges, sickness, unemployment even for the Saints. These must be borne with submissive patience, for often these trials are evidence of the Lord’s hand preparing us to be worthy of living with him. To yield to Christ means to put him and his teachings first. The total submission of our will to his is one of the most difficult obstacles we face on our journey toward eternal life. The rewards of this submission are beautifully described by President Ezra Taft Benson:“Men and women who turn their lives over to God will discover that He can make a lot more out of their lives than they can. He will deepen their joys, expand their vision, quicken their minds, strengthen their muscles, lift their spirits, multiply their blessings, increase their opportunities, comfort their souls, raise up friends, and pour out peace.” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1988, p. 361.)Self-control and self-discipline are important virtues that need to be developed in the process of coming unto Christ. In my teenage years, when I was going out to an activity, my parents would say, “Son, remember who you are.” Is this phrase familiar to you? This short statement effectively reminded me of the trust my parents had in me, of the expectations of loving grandparents, concerned uncles, aunts, and priesthood leaders. It reminded me of my responsibility to be a good example to younger brothers and sisters.Heavenly Father provides us with a similar request. He asks us to “always remember him”  and “to stand as witnesses of [him] at all times and in all things, and in all places that [we] may be in” These reminders provide a simple, but effective, decision-making tool that can help us develop needed self-control and self-discipline.Any thought, activity, or action that is compatible with the name, the life, or the teachings of Jesus Christ is acceptable. Any behavior that is not compatible with his name, his life, or his teachings is not acceptable and should be avoided.The process of being perfected requires that we receive special instruction, make sacred covenants, and receive the highest ordinances of the priesthood. These blessings are available only in the temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Individuals who come unto Christ must come to his temple.It is my prayer that all of us examine our lives and evaluate where we are in the process of coming unto Christ and being perfected in him. The Book of Mormon promised if we “come unto him, and offer [our] whole souls as an offering unto him, and  and  … [we] will be saved.”  emphasis added.)If you have not yet accepted the invitation to come unto him, please do so now. Missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are prepared and eager to teach you the doctrine of Christ. They hold the proper authority, baptize in the proper manner, and use the proper prayer.If you previously began the process of coming unto Christ but lost your way or took a detour, do not despair; begin again. Come back, come back now! Come unto Christ and enjoy the “fruit of the Spirit,” namely, “love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance” and begin to “walk in the Spirit”  and to “lay hold upon every good gift” I testify that he lives, that he is the light and life of the world, that he is our Savior and our Redeemer, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear brothers and sisters, words are so inadequate to express how humble and overwhelmed I feel at receiving this special calling. Throughout my life as I have heard the General Authorities speak and felt the power of their messages, I have gained a great reverence for the sacred role they perform in the Church. Now, to be invited to sit with them and to assist them in building the kingdom of God is a privilege I feel faint in accepting. I pray for your support, for your faith and prayers that I might measure up. I ask for your patience and for the patience of my Brethren who will be my tutors. More than anything, I pray for the help of our Heavenly Father and his Son, for without their help and direction I will surely fail.I am grateful for my wonderful companion, Kathy. She makes goodness look easy, and the purity of her spirit keeps our family focused on the simple yet saving truths of the gospel. I’m so thankful for the valiant and precious children that have been entrusted to us. I love them dearly and appreciate so much their willingness to support me in this new calling. I have been blessed with goodly parents. My parents are now serving as proselyting missionaries in the Georgia Macon Mission. Even before I knew, I knew that they knew the Church was true. I am so appreciative of Kathy’s parents and their example of unselfish giving, and for our brothers and sisters who live the gospel in quiet yet dedicated ways.Our family returned nine months ago from a mission in southern France. I want to express my great love for the members in France. It was in France twenty years ago that I began to glimpse what seeking first the kingdom of God really meant. And living among these French Saints during the last three years has motivated our family to a much greater consecration. I am so grateful for the tremendous missionaries who served there with us and taught us that uncompromising faith will always prevail in a doubting and cynical world.Finally, I am thankful for the good Saints and members in our home state of Florida, who have strengthened us through our many years there together.I have heard President Monson say, “Whom the Lord calls, the Lord qualifies.” I know this is true, and it gives me hope looking beyond my own inadequacies. I know that when we are on the Lord’s errand, he will be with us, he will strengthen us, he will build our capacities. I have experienced it. I have felt his lifting Spirit. In the months and years ahead, I will need him so very much.I pledge all that I am to this sacred calling. I promise to be teachable, and I pray that I can be sufficiently meek that the Lord can mold and strengthen my spirit to accomplish his purposes. I commit to you and to the Lord that I will consecrate myself to advancing the cause of the Restoration and to loyally following his chosen leaders.I know that our Heavenly Father lives and that he loves each one of us. I know that Jesus is the Christ and that he lovingly offers the way to our forgiveness. I know that through the Prophet Joseph Smith the church of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth and that the true priesthood authority of God is in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I pray that I may always be valiant in that testimony and to these eternal truths, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.