I wish for each one of you to know of the profound love that I feel for you.I am intrigued as knowledgeable people of the world comment on the influence and power of the Church.I would like to share with you some observations of Harold Bloom, who is a Jewish religious scholar. Dr. Bloom is a distinguished professor at both New York and Yale universities.Professor Bloom has written about the power and future of the Church, and he extols Joseph Smith as “an authentic religious genius, unique in our … history,” and praises “the sureness of his instincts, his uncanny  precisely what [was] needful for the inauguration of a new faith.” ( New York: Simon & Schuster, 1992, pp. 82–83.)Joseph Smith and Mormonism, he says, have contributed to the world “a more human God and a more divine man.” (P. 100). Bloom says, “I also do not … doubt that Joseph Smith was an authentic prophet. Where in all American history can we find his match?” (P. 95.) “Nothing else in all of American history strikes me as … equal to the early Mormons, to Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Parley and Orson Pratt, and the men and women who were their followers and friends.” (P. 79.)I am pleased to add my perspective to the impressive conclusions of Dr. Bloom. He wrote about how differently a believer might perceive Mormonism, and I am a believer. I am also one who has spent decades of academic and professional work researching and advising institutions on matters of leadership and power, and I wish to share with you my understanding about the  power of the Church. I invite each of you to think with me about several reasons why the true character and power of this work transcends the genius of any man. God the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith and directed the restoration of their Church. Jesus Christ has chosen and ordained those who hold exclusively the priesthood keys to unlock and direct God’s work. The power and authority of the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles extend to Christ’s ordained work in all the world. He has appointed the Apostles and the Seventy to travel in all nations to build up and regulate the Church. The Lord also calls “standing ministers”  to stay and bless us where we are and has affirmed the validity of his ordained representatives: “Whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same.”  Those in authority have no question about whose work this is and for whom we labor. The Church’s goal is not social standing, nor is it political or economic power. Our purpose is to invite all people to come unto Christ and be perfected in Him. Revealed gospel doctrines give us vision and perspective about God and His plan for our salvation. The Church is a divine instrument to help us qualify for eternal life, which is life with God. That is our sacred purpose, and it shapes everything about the Lord’s kingdom. Our work is to teach correct doctrine and principles of the gospel, and to provide all humankind with saving ordinances so that they will receive “all that [the] Father hath.”  President Howard W. Hunter has declared, the Church “has a comprehensive and inclusive message … restored to meet the needs of all mankind.” ( Nov. 1991, pp. 18–19.) Indeed, the Church is establishing an expansive family that includes every race, creed, tongue, and gender, the poor and needy, sinners and saints, the living  the dead in the merciful, just, and fair operations of God’s plan for all of His children. The power of the Church is based profoundly on discipleship that is rooted in individual faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Our faith is demonstrated at the waters of baptism, by worthily partaking of the sacrament, in temple worship, and in the integrity of our daily lives. True disciples seal their faith in service that is motivated by love for the Savior and for the people of the earth.  We acknowledge that all we possess belongs to God. We and all brothers and sisters who preceded us come as one, in common, to bring our offerings of tithes, time, and talents for building the kingdom of God. We strive to lift one another as neighbors and to establish ourselves as a covenant community whose lives are centered in Christ. Our most fundamental doctrines impel us to improve, individually and collectively. We counsel one with another. We pray together and in secret. We acknowledge our weaknesses, search scriptures, and ponder course adjustments. We receive the righteous benefits from heavenly-inspired gifts of science, technology, and art. We correlate, correct, and realign, bringing all truth we are capable of receiving to harmonize our lives and the leadership and organization of this work with the teachings and perfect example of our leader, Jesus Christ.Some, as Dr. Bloom suggests, might have a “healthy fear” of the future power of the Mormons. ( p. 86.) To them, we answer humbly, This is the ongoing work of the Almighty. This is not the church of Joseph Smith. It is  Church of Jesus Christ. It is the only organization in all the world that will not fail. We are witnessing today the fulfillment of the words of the prophet Daniel: The God of heaven shall set up a kingdom, which shall fill the whole earth and shall stand forever. (See Professor Bloom complimented the patience of our Church leaders. Patience is born of justified optimism. Elder Heber C. Kimball, an early Apostle, provides an impressive illustration. He returned from a mission to England in 1838 to find that half of the members in Kirtland, Ohio, had left the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith and several key leaders were imprisoned for five months. Five of the Apostles and two of the Three Witnesses had apostatized. Thousands of the Saints in Missouri were being mobbed and driven from their torched homes. Entering this bleak situation, Elder Kimball wrote: “I can truly say that I have never seen the Church in a better state since I have been a member of it. What there [is] left, [they] are firm and steadfast, full of love and good works … [and] have lost all [that they have] and are now ready to go [out to] preach the Gospel to a dying world.” (Orson F. Whitney,  Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1992, p. 246.)At that same time, Joseph Smith penned these inspiring words from Liberty Jail: “What power shall stay the heavens? As well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri river in its decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints.” With grand optimism the Prophet Joseph wrote to the editor of the  “No unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing; persecutions may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame, but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.” ( 4:540.)We rejoice that the future belongs to our Master, who created this world, provided the plan of salvation, and established this church. For He himself declared: “For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that I will come and reign with my people.” No other institution has the divine character as does The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That is because it has true authority, revealed purpose, a divine work, committed disciples, a vision of our stewardship, and impelling principles of eternal progress. To these things I humbly and gratefully testify, in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brothers and sisters, I am filled with an overwhelming sense of joy and gratitude for the transcendent events which took place in the Kirtland Temple 157 years ago today. And I wish to pay humble tribute to my parents, who raised me “in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.” I love the words of the Lord given to all who are called and appointed to go forth and preach the gospel in these latter days: “O ye my servants … , be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come.” All who know and understand the glorious work of redemption wrought by the Lord Jesus Christ and all who know of his majesty and power and promises understand why they are to be of good cheer. They who have come to know him do not fear! They look unto him in “every thought.” They “doubt not,” and they “fear not.”  They know that he, the Lord Jesus Christ, is with them and that he will stand by them! (See    “Be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you.”Following this comforting and sacred promise is a serious and equally sacred charge, even a commandment which cannot be ignored: “And ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come.” Why this sacred charge, this commandment of the Lord to his servants? The Lord answers: “And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.” “For strait is the gate, and narrow the way that leadeth unto the exaltation and continuation of the lives, and few there be that find it, because ye receive me not in the world neither do ye know me.” “I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.” No doctrine is more fundamental to an understanding of the plan of salvation than the doctrine which reveals the true identity and role of Jesus Christ.But how are all the nations of the earth to come to an understanding of the true identity of the Lord Jesus Christ? Consider these prophecies:President Benson has plainly declared that “the Book of Mormon is the instrument that God designed to ‘sweep the earth as with a flood, to gather out [His] elect.’” ( Nov. 1988, p. 4.) We have no more sacred privilege, and no more urgent and sacred responsibility, than to bear testimony that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God! And we have no more effective “instrument” with which to accomplish this sacred task than the record which God has prepared for that very purpose, even the Book of Mormon, Another Testament of Jesus Christ! In its pages, as in the other standard works of the Church, the true identity of the Lord Jesus Christ stands forever revealed—past, present, and future!Concert halls are filled at Christmastime by people in many lands throughout the world who, with reverence and rejoicing, stand and sing the triumphant and immortal words of Isaiah, set to the music of Handel’s “For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the government shall be upon his shoulder; and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.” But who is this “child”? Who is this “son”? And “whose son is he”?  Who is this “mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace,” spoken of by Isaiah? The Book of Mormon “verifies and clarifies” who he is! (Ezra Taft Benson,  Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Co., 1988, p. 13.)He is Jesus Christ, born into this world, as the “Only Begotten Son”       of God “the Eternal Father,” and the Son of Mary, “after the manner of the flesh.”     He is Jesus Christ, the long-awaited “Messiah,” “the Savior” and “Redeemer of the world”     of whom all “the prophets testified”    who came into the world so “that salvation might come unto the children of men even through faith on his name.”   He is Jesus Christ, the “Lamb of God,” who was “judged of the world, … lifted up upon the cross”  and “crucified”       “to atone for the sins of the world”    He is Jesus Christ, who, before condescending to “come down from heaven” to dwell “among the children of men”  was none other than the “Great Jehovah”     “the God of Abraham, and … Isaac, and … of Jacob”    “the Holy One of Israel”  who gave “the law” unto Moses on the mount! He is Jesus Christ, “the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the beginning”       whose “infinite atonement”     brings the “resurrection of the dead”     He is Jesus Christ, “the Eternal Judge of both [the] quick and [the] dead.”       He is Jesus Christ, “the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity to all eternity.” “O ye my servants … , be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you; and ye shall bear record of me, even Jesus Christ, that I am the Son of the Living God, that I was, that I am, and that I am to come.” I know and bear witness that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, that he was and is the Great Jehovah, the Savior and Redeemer of the world. I know that he atoned for the sins of the world and that he was resurrected with a glorious body of flesh and bone. I bear witness that he lives, and that he soon will come again to rule and reign as “King of Kings, and Lord of Lords.”  May we truly “flood the earth with the Book of Mormon” ( Nov. 1988, p. 5), that all who will may come unto him and be saved, I pray in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.