My dear sisters, I want to share with you my feelings for the gospel and my love for my Father in Heaven. What a blessing to be together, to speak of the things that really matter, to know that we are united in this great work.We are here today not because of what we do but because of who we are—daughters of our Father in Heaven. We value such definition for we are women of covenant. Our covenants hold great significance because we have made them with the Lord. They act as a fortification against the powers of opposition, a reinforcement and reminder of why we are here. Women and men in this church bear testimony to the world that this life is the time to prepare to meet God. Even though we live in very difficult and challenging times, we are on the path to eternal life, and we cannot afford to be delayed or deterred.In Proverbs we read the admonition, “Ponder the path of thy feet”  We have busy feet in this church. We do much. We have all heard the counsel to “be anxiously engaged” and then the qualifier “in a good cause” It is that “good cause” I address tonight.To be a woman of covenant is a sacred and holy responsibility. It is uniquely ours. It is not by chance that we are on the Lord’s errand at this time. It is by choice that we came to this earth to follow the path of the Savior. At baptism, we covenanted, as did the Nephites at the waters of Mormon, to be called his people, to serve him, to keep his commandments, to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things and in all places (see Our covenant to follow Christ is in sharp contrast to many whose voices fill the newspapers, whose new morality blankets the screens, and whose values, while being updated, have become uprooted.As women of covenant we seek exaltation and the peace that attends eternal life in the kingdom of heaven. With that resolve comes the quiet reassurance that speaks softly to our souls and reaffirms to us that peace and love, hope and gentility, reverence, joy, and obedience bring about change and good works. Indeed we stand before the world today to rejoice—not in the power of men and women—but in the goodness of God.Sisters, the time is past when we can merely believe. We must be passionate in our beliefs. Women hunger for things of the Spirit. One of the primary reasons women attend Relief Society is to be spiritually nourished, to learn more of God’s teachings. Our personal testimonies, growing as all of them are, champion our cause to “Come unto Christ” [see Today we see all around us the adversary at work—and he is succeeding. He has twisted truths to his purposes, and throngs have followed. Either we are holding fast to the iron rod or, perhaps, unconsciously, we are letting go by just a few fingers and are slowly slipping away. “Not me,” you might say, but none of us is exempt. Nor are we immune to sidesteps in a frantic rush to do it all, the desire to have it all, and the justification to need it all—now. Satan is ruthless, and his efforts are never ending.Eliza R. Snow said: “We stand in a different position … ; we have made covenant with God, we understand his order” ( Sept. 1871, p. 578). These covenants include the counsel to Emma Smith recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants to “lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better” I am dedicated to that charge.The path, straight and narrow, was marked by Jesus Christ. Isaiah called it the “highway … of holiness”  I testify to you today that the Lord has trusted the women of this church with most-sacred works on the path to perfection.I heard from a mother of five small children in South Carolina. She had injured her back and was totally bedfast. She wrote to me of the “little mercy squads” in her ward who had cared for her night and day: “They fed me, conquered my mending pile, cleared the tears from my eyes, and administered therapy in the night. All the time they assured me it was no bother; they just wanted to learn more charity and just needed someone to practice on.”There are times when we do have helping hands and times when there are no hands except the Lord’s hands.A 93-year-old sister in Idaho describes her path with, “I have had happiness and much trouble, much sorrow.” Our experiences help us understand where she’s been. Though our Lord Jesus Christ could have called down the powers of heaven, his paths were often solitary and his agony—in the end—borne by him alone.Christ’s cause was singular and focused, for he proclaimed, “I came into the world to do the will of my Father”  And so must we. Our willingness to take seriously our covenants brings comfort amid sorrows, joy amid pain, blessings amid suffering.All around the Church are wonderful women who exert great influence. Sisters, we have much to share: our spiritual strength, our sense of purpose, our commitment to the gospel, our blessings as a result of the holy priesthood. Look closely with me at these four areas where we make such a difference.
	
      We have within us the Spirit of the Lord to guide us on the path of righteousness. Daily, we choose between temptation and sanctification. We seek spiritual moments as we read the scriptures. We pray and carry that prayer in our hearts. We know the peace that comes from hearing not applause or an answering machine but that still small voice that whispers ever so softly. We listen less to the world and more to the promptings from on high.Remember that the spirit is not the same as self. The spirit is not enhanced by selfishness, self-pity, self-pride, and self-deception. “To be spiritually-minded is life eternal” Our spirituality is also recharged by each other. Show charity for each other. Show understanding, not judgment; kindness, not blame; joy, not envy. Love as the Lord loves.I think of the small group of sisters in Bangalore, India, who meet together only once a month as Relief Society. The other weeks they meet individually in small groups in homes. I visited with them last year and quickly recognized how the Spirit of the Lord embraced that little band of women. When their thirty-year-old president, a convert of two years, introduced me and bore testimony of the blessings of the sisterhood of Relief Society, I was touched by the love felt for one another. They are women of God. I could feel his Spirit then just as I feel it with us tonight.
	
      The Old Testament prophet Micah said, “For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, … we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for ever and ever” How, in this complex world, do we walk in the name of the Lord, our God, when questions of home, family, marriage, work, children, age, and death play so much a part of our day-to-day experiences? How do we think like the Lord when we are low, wisely when we are weary, feel patient when we are pressured and respected when we are rejected?Sisters, turn to the Lord. He cares so deeply for our happiness and our well-being. Talk with him earnestly and often, and your answers will come.Next, look at your priorities. As women of covenant we must hold close to our hearts the things that really matter. Homes, families, and people matter. For those who have young and growing children, they are our first priority. I am not speaking of maintenance, not the wash, not the windows. I am speaking of loving our children and teaching them righteous principles. I am speaking of a willing heart that puts the eternal needs of children in our charge ahead of our own personal style. I’m talking about the pain when a child has strayed from the path and we lead that child back one step at a time.As a young mother I remember saying to my youngest son, Gordon, when he fell from his bike and faced not only skinned knees but the loss of confidence as well, “I’m right here.” I would say as I put my arms around him to comfort him, “I’m right here.” Doesn’t that remind us of the Lord, who is with us always? (see  He’s not just at church, in the temple, or when we kneel at our bed. He’s “right here” when we live by his teachings.
	
      I witnessed commitment when I visited with a sister in her home in the Philippines. She had nothing by the standards of the world. Her family of eight children lived clustered in a two-room nipa hut that stood on stilts. After climbing the ladder to the door, I was taken immediately to a corner where on a small table sat a portable sewing machine. This was not a new model with 320 stitches, bells, whistles, and a serger. It was a machine older than my mother’s! But she was not showing off a possession; she was sharing her commitment. For two years, she had sewn for others on that simple machine to earn the money to take her family to the temple so that they would be sealed together. The last child, she said with a smile, was born under the covenant.She was committed to her covenants, and she valued the blessings of the priesthood that came into her life because of her faithfulness. She did not stop at baptism, for she understood, where “much is given much is required”  By her efforts, her family was sealed—forever. Imagine their joy!
	
      We have the blessings of the priesthood in these latter days to help us see clearly and act accordingly. As disciples of Christ we are blessed with more than common sense, good ideas, and righteous inclinations. We must always remember that “Jesus Christ is the great High Priest of God; Christ is therefore the source of all true priesthood authority and power on this earth” ( New York: Macmillan, 1992, p. 1133).We know what it is to place our faith, our prayers, our confidence, and our esteem in those whom God has appointed to lead. The Lord has told us that “whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same” I want you to know that I, as the general president of the Relief Society, embrace the blessings that come from serving under the direction of leaders who hold the priesthood. We must stand united as a people for the Lord to call us one. Elder John A. Widtsoe spoke of men and women yoked together in their joint devotion to righteous principles when he said: “In the ordinances of the Priesthood man and woman share alike. … In the Church of Christ, woman is not an adjunct to, but an equal partner with man” ( June-July 1943, p. 373).Women and men have available every priesthood blessing essential for salvation—the blessings of being baptized, receiving the Holy Ghost, renewing our covenants through taking the sacrament, and making and keeping temple covenants. As women of covenant, we know and understand the guidance in the Doctrine and Covenants, which is counsel for women as well as for men: “Their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson—“… the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness” Now, once again, may I say, “Ponder the path of thy feet”   Look to the Lord for direction and guidance as my choice counselors and this faithful sister have testified here tonight.Ponder the direct message from an Apostle of Jesus Christ. Elder M. Russell Ballard has counseled us not to judge others. We were reminded that each of us has the privilege to carefully and prayerfully seek the Lord’s will, just for us, regarding life’s challenges. Further, he reminded us that this is God’s plan and it is not our prerogative to alter or tamper with it.I ask that each of you take to heart these messages and know that they come from the Lord through his servants. To their testimonies I add my own. I know that we, daughters of the Most High God, are here to do the Lord’s will in an era most difficult, yet at a time that the angels of God rejoice in our efforts. I know that the Lord reigns supreme and that he has prepared a place for us in his kingdom on high. I know that as women of covenant we will choose that path to life eternal. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.When I was seventeen years old, I received a patriarchal blessing. I was admonished to seek a companion who could take me to the temple and blessed that I would become a mother in Israel. I subsequently took it for granted that I would finish high school, continue my studies for some time, and then marry and begin a family.But I was still unmarried in my thirties. By then I had come to understand that the promises of my patriarchal blessing might not be realized during my mortal life. Although I understood that if worthy and faithful, I would eventually enjoy every blessing, I was still troubled. I wondered whether I could be happy if marriage and family did not come in the ways I had desired. During one difficult period, I went often to the temple. On one occasion, I was given a clear message from God. I was told that I did not need to be afraid.As I pondered that experience, I understood that my happiness did not depend on the timing of marriage and family blessings nor on the other conditions of my life but upon trust in God and obedience to him. Our Heavenly Father knows and loves each of us; he knows the circumstances and challenges of our lives, and he will help us. The scriptures teach, “Wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you” As it turned out, I did marry. I was thirty-four, and my husband was thirty-seven. We wanted to begin our family quickly, but children did not come easily. We told Heavenly Father that if he would give us a child, we would dedicate that child to his service. When I was thirty-seven, our first child, a daughter, was born. We asked our Heavenly Father for another child and again promised that we would consecrate this child to his will. When I was almost forty, we had a son. We asked for more children but did not receive them.Emily is now almost ten and Danny is seven, and we are trying to raise them in fulfillment of the promises that we have made. Like Latter-day Saint parents everywhere, we acknowledge that God has given us our children, and we are trying to help them learn to love and serve him.I still have much to learn about raising children, but the Relief Society has given me the opportunity to share some ideas that have come from my own experiences and from my conversations with friends and family members. They are related to the conviction that we may indeed be of good cheer, for the Lord will be with us and will help us with the varying but inevitable challenges that will come to us all.One thing I have learned is that motherhood entails difficult decisions. When our first child was born, I had been working for about twelve years, first as a teacher and later as a lawyer. I wondered whether to continue working. My husband’s income was sufficient to meet our needs, but we were about twenty years older than most new parents. I wondered whether we would both survive to raise our children and, if I were widowed, how I would provide for them. I wondered how difficult it would be to find a job at the age of sixty should a need arise as our children entered college or received mission calls.President Kimball, who was then the prophet, had counseled the sisters of the Church: “Some women, because of circumstances beyond their control, must work. We understand that. … Do not, however, make the mistake of being drawn off into secondary tasks which will cause the neglect of your eternal assignments such as giving birth to and rearing the spirit children of our Father in Heaven. Pray carefully over all your decisions” (Spencer W. Kimball,  Nov. 1979, p. 103; see also  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1979, p. 41).I took this counsel seriously. I knew that I had to decide whether I was among those who must work. After praying earnestly about the matter, I sought a priesthood blessing from my husband. The blessing promised that I would be able to make a decision that would be good for our family but did not indicate what the decision should be. I tried to foresee the effect my decision would have on my husband, my children, and me and to listen for inspiration. My choice was to become a full-time homemaker.I have not regretted that decision. I have loved being home with the children, watching them grow, and helping them learn. But I remain aware that a time may come when I must provide for my family. Having tried to make a wise decision and to do those things I can to maintain employable skills, I feel I must and can trust the Lord to help me should such a need arise.Formulating priorities is an ongoing process for us all. Sisters throughout the Church, many in circumstances far more difficult than mine, have prayerfully considered the counsel of the prophets and sought the guidance of the Holy Ghost as they too have endeavored to make wise decisions regarding the well-being of their families. And though their decisions have been inevitably varied and diverse, and sometimes misunderstood by others, I believe that they too must and can trust the Lord to help them fulfill their responsibilities.When we have been honest with ourselves and humble before the Lord in decisions about work and in the myriad decisions involved in mothering, we can go forward with courage. “For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind” As I have attempted to establish priorities, I have learned that we may almost always have too much to do. As a mother at home with only two children, I have too much to do. How much greater the demands are for women who work outside the home or whose families are large or who are parenting their children alone! As I think about our time constraints, I conclude that God has not intended that we should be able to do everything we would like to do. If there were not more to do than we are individually capable of doing, we wouldn’t have to make choices and we would never realize what we value most.It is often difficult to know what the most important things are. We are blessed to raise our children in a time when the gospel has been restored and when God has called prophets to help us with decision making. I am grateful for the direction given us by President Ezra Taft Benson. In preparing for this talk, I have studied again his counsel regarding the ways that mothers can bless the lives of their children. I would like to share my experience in implementing one of his suggestions.President Benson counseled us, as have other prophets, to read the scriptures as a family each day. For the past several years, our family has been trying to do that. Last year, however, I noticed a problem developing. Our children practice musical instruments, and I encourage them to do this in the morning when there are fewer distractions. But sometimes they would go to bed late and get up late. On those days they would not have enough time to finish practicing, dress, eat, and read the scriptures before going out the door. The activity usually slighted was scripture study. Sometimes we would read a verse or two, and sometimes we’d say we’d get to it after school, but our efforts were inconsistent. This year I realized that my priorities were wrong. It occurred to me that I might be conveying to the children that the study of music was more important than the study of the gospel. I decided that on those mornings when time was short, we would study the scriptures and postpone music practice. I want to bear you my testimony that I have felt a great peace as we have followed the counsel of the prophet in this matter.To accept the guidance of our Heavenly Father, through the scriptures and through his prophets, is a source of much strength and courage. We may not be able to do everything, but he will bless us in our efforts to do those things that he has asked us to do. Like Nephi, we can do the things the Lord has commanded, for he “giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them” Another source of courage has been the experiences that have taught me that God will give mothers guidance concerning the individual needs of their children. Some of my most fervent prayers have been for blessings for my children and for guidance in directing them. While answers have most often come in the peaceful confirmation of a planned course of action, I have sometimes been surprised with the clarity of new ideas presented to my mind.God will do much more. Every woman who has raised children worries about the mistakes she has made. I feel deep sorrow when I realize that I have hurt my children’s feelings, been impatient, or let opportunities to bless them slip by. But each of us may have hope in the atonement of Christ, not only that we may repent and be forgiven but that through his grace our children can be healed of the emotional wounds we may have inflicted and compensated for the errors we may have made. Christ has said, “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. … Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid” I am grateful to be a mother. I bear testimony that mothering is, in the words of my patriarchal blessing, “a great and important work given to women of the Church.” I thank Heavenly Father for this privilege to assist in his work—“to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man” I bear testimony of his love and interest in helping us, of the accessibility of his guidance through prophets and prayer, and of his kindness and forgiveness for the errors we may make. As mothers in Zion and as sisters in the gospel of Jesus Christ, we are on the Lord’s errand. We may “be of good cheer” [see  for he will be with us and stand by us. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.