My dear sisters and brothers, aloha! What a joy it is to be with you today, feeling the strength of our sisterhood in the gospel of Jesus Christ. We are met as women with a purpose, as sisters in the Relief Society, which is the Lord’s organization for women. I, with this wonderful choir, plead that we may all come to Christ and find rest in his eternal love.May I share with you some thoughts on the power of learning and its relation to self-reliance. To the Saints of this dispensation, the Lord gave important instructions to seek balanced learning. The terms in the scriptures are  and  For example, in  the Lord invites us: “Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith.” This same invitation is repeated twice more in the Doctrine and Covenants (see To me, the terms  and  say that self-reliance comes from both efforts. Everyone involved in the Relief Society literacy effort knows that literacy takes both study  faith. We need to cultivate both of them.Let me give you an example. Suppose you want to know how the human body works. Faith tells us that our bodies were created through an inspired process, that they were made in the image of our Heavenly Parents, that we have a stewardship over them to keep them sacred and healthy during our mortal probation, and that we will reclaim them as perfect after the resurrection. That is the message of faith. That’s like one oar on a boat.But to understand their workings—whether an illness is caused by a chemical imbalance or through a fever, how to set a broken bone properly, or how to replace an improperly functioning valve in the heart by surgery—that requires intense and detailed study. Study is the other oar by which we can seek and obtain knowledge.What happens if you try to paddle a boat using only one oar? You go around and around in circles. If you paddle hard, you go fast. If you paddle slowly, you turn gently. But you still just go around in circles. It’s the same with trying to make study replace faith or trying to exercise faith but without study. We can often find ourselves just going around in circles. I think that the Holy Ghost cannot give us some answers until we are actively seeking knowledge.Think what great progress has been made in medicine by those who use both oars in their training. For example, Elder Russell M. Nelson, a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, used both oars in his former profession as a heart surgeon. With the trained skills of his hands, the knowledge stored in his mind from his study and his experience, and the faith in his heart that he would be sustained by the Holy Ghost as he operated, he has performed modern miracles that have spared the lives and prolonged the vigor and energy of so many people, including Presidents of the Church and many General Authorities. If he had relied only on faith, he still would have been a great man, but he would not have been a great surgeon. If he had relied only on study, he might have been a great surgeon, but I think there are many assignments that the Lord would not have entrusted to him.It is the same with us. Each woman needs to develop both gifts, the gift of faith and the gift of study, to the utmost of her capacity. We need to exercise both study and faith to become self-reliant. We need to understand their relationship to each other and to us.There are many kinds of self-reliance. According to the Church’s welfare guidelines,  “as we work toward self-reliance, we should prepare ourselves in the following areas: education; health; employment; home storage; resource management; and social, emotional, and spiritual strength.” Let’s look at one aspect of self-reliance—employment—and see how learning by both study and faith relates to this topic.We have faith in our prophets. They have counseled us that mothers with young children are especially needed at home. They remind us of the great needs of our children and their vulnerabilities during their growing years. The importance of the mother in building a secure, loving, stimulating environment in which children can grow up as healthy and self-reliant individuals is very important. The ideal family for raising children, we believe, is a stable, loving, two-parent family where young children receive full-time parenting.But not all situations are ideal. Not all women are mothers, and not all mothers have children at home. Furthermore, not all mothers can make the choice to be home with their children all of the time. Often circumstances constrain their choices. At other times, other responsibilities and opportunities require that difficult decisions be made. Women and families will be happier with these decisions if they are made using both study and faith.Perhaps our study and faith may be resources for a searching sister, but let us never judge another. We do not know her circumstances.We do not know what soul-searching went into her decisions. Whether she is a sister alone; whether she and her husband, if she is married, went jointly to the Lord for guidance; or whether she was responsible, largely alone, to make decisions about the financial and emotional security of her children, let us be accepting and supportive as sisters. Let us trust the Lord, trust ourselves, and trust each other that we are trying to do the best we can. We need all the strength we can find for our daily trials. Let us not add our disapproval to a sister’s burdens. And as we struggle with our own burdens, let us not diminish our strength by accepting the perhaps thoughtless judgments of others.Let our Relief Societies be supportive and sharing. We are all in the Relief Society boat, and it needs all of us to paddle just as hard as we can. Let us value everyone’s contributions. Let us not exclude a sister, whatever her life choices and whatever her circumstances. Let us express trust that she used both study and prayer in making her decisions, and provide a supportive environment in which she can carry out those decisions, evaluate them for their success, and modify them if necessary. If change is necessary or desirable, it will be easier in a nurturing, supportive atmosphere.Each year it becomes increasingly important for women to improve their abilities to take care of themselves and their children economically, if circumstances should require it. Elder Howard W. Hunter, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, addressed this point specifically in 1975: “There are impelling reasons for our sisters to plan toward employment also. We want them to obtain all the education and vocational training possible before marriage. If they become widowed or divorced and need to work, we want them to have dignified and rewarding employment. If a sister does not marry, she has every right to engage in a profession that allows her to magnify her talents and gifts.” If anything, his counsel has become even more relevant in the almost twenty years that have passed as the national economy has made it increasingly difficult for one wage to support a family, as more mothers are left alone to raise their children, and as more women spend lengthy portions of their lives single. He is telling all of us to use the oar of study to prepare ourselves professionally for worthy and rewarding activities, including paid employment.But President Hunter’s example also shows us the importance of faith. He describes his first career as “glamorous in some respects”; however, it required him to associate with some people whose standards made him uncomfortable, so he changed to another line of work. This example shows that we should seek work in which we can be attended by the Spirit of the Lord. In other words, row, row, row your boat and use both oars!Learning by study was a very high priority in my family. My parents were plantation laborers on the “big island” of Hawaii. Both of them had been obliged to leave school at about the sixth grade. High school was out of the question for both of them, and college was an impossible dream. But they desperately desired an education for their children. Perhaps because I was their only child for five years, they dreamed that dream for me, even though it is unusual for a daughter to receive more advantages than a son in traditional Japanese families. They made many sacrifices so that I could go to high school and more so I could graduate from college. They did the same for my brothers with their chosen professions, although my brothers did not pursue academic interests. Neither one of my parents ever set foot on a college campus until my graduation. The only college graduate they knew socially was one teacher in our village.But they gave me my tools, and they gave me trust. What do I mean by tools? They taught me to be curious, to ask questions, to observe nature closely, to watch people—especially in a new environment—to treat people respectfully and learn how to make connections with them, to work very hard, and to always do my best. They believed that no matter what I chose to do with my life, these skills would help me. And they were right.And what do I mean by trust? They sent me away to high school at age fifteen. They let me know in dozens of little ways that they trusted my decisions, trusted me to stay focused on my goal, and trusted me to lead an upright life. It is one of the great joys of my life that I did not disappoint my parents.Because I was willing to study the gospel of Jesus Christ, I became a member of the Church and developed great faith in the Savior. My faith gave me more strength to seek knowledge by study. I cannot separate learning by study and learning by faith. Both of them touch my heart, enlighten my mind, and encourage me in service.Learning by study and learning from the Spirit are the two halves of my life. These oars have helped me row my professional boat, make a good marriage, raise my sons, and serve in the Church. I need them both as I strive for self-reliance. You need them both as you strive for self-reliance.Peter’s last recorded words to the Saints of his day are counsel to “grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ”  and King Benjamin urged his people to “grow in the knowledge of the glory of him that created you, or in the knowledge of that which is just and true” Sisters, we need to keep growing. Part of our mortal responsibility is to increase in learning and wisdom. We need to use the two oars of study and faith so that our boats will not be swamped by the storms of life. We need to teach our children to use these same oars. Let’s encourage them to value education and to increase in learning and wisdom through study and faith.Some of you may feel that your chance to gain more learning has passed you by. It is not so. You can learn at any age. No one individual has enough power to control all of her life circumstances, but she can meet those circumstances with confidence if she has the appropriate tools and trusts herself to use them properly.My dear sisters, trust in the Lord. Life will bring you many difficult and even frightening decisions. Follow the Spirit in making those decisions, in consultation with those who are also affected by those decisions. Seek information from the knowledgeable. Seek priesthood blessings, when you desire, to supplement your own pleadings with the Lord. And when your course is clear, pursue it with all your might and find joy and rejoicing in it.I have been a lifelong learner, and I love the things I learn each day about the glory of the gospel and the wonders of the world we live in. The promise of eternal progression is a thrilling one to me as I look forward to an eternity of learning. Let us trust both study and faith to keep us going straight, instead of around in circles.My dear sisters, I am so grateful for the Relief Society and the great strength that it can be for women. I am grateful for the atonement of the Savior and the gospel of Jesus Christ which lifts us, opens eternal doors of learning to us, and gives us reasons for our faith. I am grateful for the restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am grateful for the support of our priesthood leaders in our righteous endeavors. I know the Lord hears and answers our prayers. May we love and trust and serve each other, “by study and also by faith,” I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.My dear sisters, how I have looked forward to this time when I can speak with you and share what is in my heart. As sisters in Relief Society, we are bound together by our faith in Jesus Christ and in his gospel. We always draw strength from being together—wherever we are assembled.I have lived during the leadership of eight different Presidents of the Church, and I have a testimony of the divine calling of each of these prophets and their predecessors. I was born when President Heber J. Grant was leading this church. I raised my family drawing upon the wisdom of President David O. McKay. I have served as general president of the Relief Society these past four years under the direction of President Ezra Taft Benson. Today we have the blessing of having with us the prophet, Howard W. Hunter, the fourteenth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.President Hunter, we love you. We are inspired by your quiet, noble countenance, your kindness, your discernment, and your dedication. We are grateful for your compelling message to follow the example of Jesus Christ in a spirit of thoughtfulness, compassion, and humility. And we thank God for the keys of the holy priesthood which you exercise and thus bless us all.Speaking for more than three and a half million sisters of Relief Society, I express our support for you as a prophet, seer, and revelator of this church. Though the opportunity officially to raise our hands to sustain you is reserved for general conference next week, today, on behalf of the women of this church, I say, “We thank … God, for a prophet to guide us in these latter days” ( 1985, no. 19). President Hunter, we also commit our sustaining support for your Counselors, the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the Quorums of the Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric. We want you to know that the sisters of this church work gladly and harmoniously under the direction of our priesthood leaders at both the general and the local levels.As we have witnessed the transition of leadership from President Benson to President Hunter, it is clear this is a church of order. Jesus Christ has established the order of things on this earth. We need not worry, for he has told us, “Let your hearts be comforted concerning Zion; for all flesh is in mine hands; be still and know that I am God” Relief Society is a part of that order, for it is the Lord’s organization for women. Our reach extends around the world, and our influence is vital for all women. Forty years ago, President Belle S. Spafford paid tribute to pioneer women leaders, describing them as those who “had been given by divine insight a knowledge of the destiny of Relief Society” (Jill Mulvay Derr, Janath Russell Cannon, and Maureen Ursenbach Beecher,  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1992, p. 337). Today Relief Society is continuing to become what they envisioned so many years ago. As Relief Society sisters, we exemplify brightness and hope, spirituality and compassion. We are women of many cultures, ages, and experiences, united together to build testimonies and exercise the charity for which we are known.Sisters, this is a complicated era in which we live. Technology has simplified some tasks and opened up ways to learn that our grandmothers never imagined. But with a computerized society have come increased pressures, causing us to weigh carefully how we use our time, to evaluate thoughtfully what we can do that will make the greatest difference.Our society of sisters brings an ability to work, to influence, teach, train, and uplift. We also bring a remarkable zest for life. Daily—even courageously—sisters of this church are living true to the covenants they have made.So many of you have written to me of your experiences, your trials, your triumphs, and your testimonies. I am grateful for your willingness to share what you have learned. What I have seen emerging is a profile of women who understand that “the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind”  Let me share some of these experiences with you, for they teach powerful lessons.A sister in New Mexico described trying to gain an understanding of a conference message: “I read and reread the talk, prayed often, and pondered upon its meaning. … The results were astonishing to me. I had always believed I was a child of God, but somewhere in this study process I gained a spiritual confirmation that this was true.”In Argentina, Relief Society leaders are trying to teach the importance of food storage. They wrote: “Unfortunately, most of the sisters [here] cannot afford to buy an extra kilo of sugar, or flour, or an extra liter of oil. However, they have been encouraged to save, even just a spoonful at a time.”In Tonga, Relief Society sisters came together to clean the local school. “It was a wonderful sight watching the sisters as they worked with their hoes and bush knives, … [hearing] the sweet sound of coconut-frond brooms as they gathered debris. The joy of working together has bonded the … sisters in the spirit of compassionate service.”A sister in South Africa wrote: “Our stake is one of the farthest from the headquarters of the Church, but even though we are continents apart, our hearts beat as one; and as Relief Society sisters, we are striving to emulate the Savior who gave His life in service to others.”I received a similar letter from Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, from a woman who said: “At the age of 19, I sat next to a sweet grandmother in Relief Society and learned to knit. She also was learning to knit. Over the years, I learned of bread making, of strength and perseverance. I learned that my toddler was just being a normal two-year-old, and I learned of a Heavenly Father who loves me. I learned to teach, to hug, to lead, and to follow.”A Relief Society leader in Georgia wrote of the magnanimous service given after a devastating flood in the region. She said: “The sisters here are living the teachings of the Savior. Please tell Sister Jack not to worry about us. The sisters here are a mobilized unit of charity. We won’t fail.” Thank you! I take heart in the conviction that “we won’t fail.” All around this church, women are doing their part.The Lord has counseled us directly in this dispensation to seek the Spirit—to learn much—that we might “lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better”  I feel strongly that this is a clarion call for the women of this church at this time. For us to stand firm and faithful, we must be clearly focused on seeking the Lord.Seeking implies so much more than merely looking.  means energy, direction, passion, purpose. To seek requires all our “heart, might, mind and strength”  We sisters are good at using our hearts and our hands in the Lord’s work. But we must also use our minds. More than one hundred years ago, Relief Society President Emmeline B. Wells said, “I believe in women, especially thinking women” (“Why, Ah! Why”  vol. 3, Oct. 1, 1874, p. 67). So do I.How do we seek with our minds? With our intellect we can ponder, we can analyze our circumstances, we can sort and sift information, weigh our options; we can store ideas, we can draw conclusions from our experiences, find answers to our problems; we can treasure thoughts and receive revelation. Isn’t that what the Lord meant when he said, “You must study it out in your mind” and then ask me if these things are not true? This statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith inspires me: “Thy mind … if thou wilt lead a soul unto salvation, must stretch as high as the utmost heavens” ( 3:295). We must stretch our minds if we are to reach that lofty goal so familiar to us all: “The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth” As we earnestly seek light and truth, we develop clarity in our lives that reflects spiritual understanding and commitment. This clarity results as we learn from our daily experiences, our thoughtful study, and as we receive personal inspiration from the Holy Spirit. We have been promised:“Whatever principle of intelligence we attain … in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.“And if a person gains more knowledge … in this life through his diligence … , he will have so much the advantage in the world to come” Learning—converting light and truth to everyday action in living the laws of God—is what we seek.Not long ago I was speaking to Relief Society women in North Dakota. After our Saturday morning meeting, we boarded a chartered bus with some of the sisters who had attended the leadership meeting to return for a women’s fireside in South Dakota. We expected the bus ride to take four hours. It took the rest of the day and part of the evening.The bus broke down three times.We spent half the afternoon at a rest stop, but after a tedious wait, the bus driver finally got the motor going.This could have been a miserable experience. There were families anticipating their mothers’ return; there were rides waiting to take some women on the bus another three hours to their homes. It was hot.But on that prairie ride I had both a learning and a spiritually fulfilling experience. Two hours from our destination, one of the sisters stood in the aisle at the front of the bus and bore her testimony. One after another, sisters spoke of the power of priesthood blessings in their homes, of direct answers to prayers during serious illness, of the influence of the Spirit in employment opportunities, of being guided in accepting the gospel. Through their testimonies, I saw how easily the light and truth of the gospel influenced their daily learning experiences.The Lord has given us a lifetime to learn. This process is part of our eternal progression. President Brigham Young emphasized its importance when he said: “When shall we cease to learn? … Never, never” (in  3:203).Relief Society is a modern forum where sisters learn spiritual truths together. We can learn in an accepting atmosphere of trust and friendship. In Relief Society we stretch our minds and we fill up our reservoir of faith. A sister from Spain wrote of this process: “Since we have become members of this church, our vision has changed. Our minds have been awakened, and we want to learn. We have a great desire to cultivate our intellect as we are taught through the manuals of our beloved organization.” She then describes how some are going on to school, and one, the bishop’s wife, has attended the university. “We are all so very proud of her,” she said.These Relief Society sisters are seeking learning, and they are supporting each other in the process. They are using their minds and their might.In their focus on learning, these women are part of a burgeoning literacy effort in the Church. In announcing the focus on literacy to all the Church, President Gordon B. Hinckley said: “Now a great new project is to be undertaken. … Its consequences will go on and on and be felt in the lives of generations yet to come. It is a program … designed to bring light into the lives of those who can neither read nor write” ( Mar. 1992, p. 6).Seeking to be literate is a compelling challenge. Being able to read enables us to seek further light and truth. Light is more than being able to see with eyes. It includes revelation of things as they are, as they were, and as they are to come. Light brings definition out of darkness.Light and truth are not obscure terms. Truth is basic to the gospel. The more we seek to know, the better we are able to distinguish between a foolish notion and a wise idea. From such wisdom, we find truth. As we sang, “Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore” ( 1985, no. 272).Fervently, we seek truth. Of course there are, all around us, many who seek to do good deeds, for we in the Church do not have a corner on goodness. But we have the Spirit that allows us to recognize and discern the truth wherever we find it. This knowledge sets us apart and brings joy, as well as weighty responsibility.We must seek to know Jesus Christ, for this is knowledge that is singular and everlasting. Jesus told us explicitly, “Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently”  Sisters, if I could offer but two words of counsel, they would be “Seek Jesus!” Moroni counseled, “Seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever”  What a promise, and what a challenge!Seeking Jesus feeds our spiritual soul and at the same time prompts us to feed others. We do it in small ways, and these efforts make a big difference. Seeking Jesus helps us to prioritize, to find time to read the scriptures every day so we can feel the Spirit of the Lord all day long. Seeking Jesus is learning to balance what we feel in our hearts with what we know to be true in our minds, and show through our actions that we understand that balance.We often hear the statement “Times have changed,” and in some ways they have. But they have also stayed the same. What is constant is the message testified to us by the Holy Spirit that we must seek Jesus and the truths of the everlasting gospel.I bear testimony that these truths are given to us by a loving Heavenly Father. They will give us the knowledge and strength to live our lives with hope, courage, and faith. May the shared sisterhood of Relief Society, established by the Lord through a prophet, bless and sustain the women of this church, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.