I pray for a portion of your faith and prayers as I bear witness of Christ. In the hearts of all mankind, of whatever race or station in life, there are inexpressible longings for something they do not now possess. This longing is implanted by a concerned Creator.A loving Heavenly Father’s design is that this longing of the human heart should lead to the One who alone can satisfy it—even Jesus of Nazareth, who was foreordained in the Grand Council before the earth was created.To the brother of Jared, the premortal Jesus said:“Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. … In me shall all mankind have life, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name” Today is Easter—a day designated to solemnize the bodily resurrection of the Savior of the world. As members of His restored church, it is imperative that we do our utmost to expand our understanding of His premortal commission, His earthly ministry, His unjust crucifixion, the agony of His suffering, His final sacrifice, and His resurrection. Each of us is profoundly indebted to Him, for we were purchased by the shedding of His own precious blood. We are surely obligated to follow His admonition, to believe on His name, and to testify of Him and His word.I am indebted for some of my remarks to eyewitness accounts of Christ’s life as recorded in the New Testament; to prophets—ancient and modern—especially to the Prophet Joseph Smith for his personal witness that God the Father and His Son live and for his faithfully following divine instructions in bringing forth the fulness of the everlasting gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and other latter-day scriptures; also to the apostolic writings of Elders James E. Talmage and Bruce R. McConkie; and to others, including theologian and believer Frederic Farrar. Our scriptures teach us gospel truths, and inspired writers add to our understanding.We have learned that during the last days of His mortal life, Jesus had withdrawn from all public teaching and had spent the Wednesday before Passover in Bethany in seclusion. The next day, Thursday, Jesus instructed Peter and John to go to Jerusalem, where they would find a room prepared so they could meet together. In that room Jesus met with the Twelve, and they sat down to eat.It was custom that as a person entered a room, he laid aside his sandals at the door and his feet were washed to remove the dust from his travels. A servant usually performed this lowly task, but on this sacred night, “Jesus Himself, in His eternal humility and self-denial, rose from His place at the meal to do [this] menial service” (Frederic W. Farrar,  Portland, Or.: Fountain Publications, 1980, p. 557).Jesus said to them:“Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.“If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another’s feet” “He their Lord and Master had washed their feet. It was a kind and gracious task, and such ought to be the nature of all their dealings with each other. He had done it to teach them humility, … self-denial, [and] love” (Farrar,  p. 559).During the course of the meal, He revealed the terrible news that one among them would betray Him, and a deep sadness fell over all of them.Jesus spoke to Judas, “That [which] thou doest, do quickly”  And Judas left the room to do his awful deed.Conscious of the impending events, Jesus opened His heart to His chosen eleven, saying:“Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. …“Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: [but] whither I go, ye cannot come. …“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” While in that upper room, Jesus—initiating the sacrament—took bread, brake it, prayed over it, and passed it to the disciples, saying, “This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me” And then, passing the cup, He said, “This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you” The Savior prayed to the Father for the Apostles and all believers, saying:“Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:“As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” The time which remained for Him to be with them was short. He told them of the Holy Ghost, whom He would send to comfort and guide them in truth. He taught them many things that night in the upper room as He tried to prepare them for that which He knew was coming.They rose from the table, united their voices in a hymn, and left the room together to walk to the Garden of Gethsemane and all that awaited them there.“The awful hour of His deepest [suffering] had arrived: … Nothing remained … but the torture of physical pain and … mental anguish. … He … calm[ed] His spirit by prayer and solitude to meet that hour in which all that is evil in the Power of [Satan] should wreak its worst upon the Innocent and Holy [One]. And He must face that hour alone” (Farrar,  p. 575).“My soul,” He said, “is full of anguish, even unto death” (ibid., p. 576) [see  It was not the anguish and fear of pain and death but “the burden … of the world’s sin which lay heavy on His heart” (ibid., p. 579).“He withdrew to find His only consolation in communing with [His Father]. And there He found all that He needed. Before that hour was over He was prepared for the worst that Satan or man could do” (ibid., p. 580).“From the terrible conflict in Gethsemane, Christ emerged a victor. Though in the dark tribulation of that … hour He had pleaded that the bitter cup be removed from His lips, … the Father’s will was never lost sight of” (James E. Talmage,  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1983, p. 569).And then came Judas with his betraying kiss; Christ’s surrender to His enemies; the arrest of the Son of God and three sham trials before the priests in the Sanhedrin; the insults and the derision of the multitudes; Christ’s appearance before Pontius Pilate, then Herod, then again before Pilate. Then came the final pronouncement of Pilate. After three appeals to the multitude of Jews to spare one of their own fell upon deaf ears, he delivered Jesus to be scourged.“Scourging was the ordinary preliminary to crucifixion. … The … sufferer was publicly stripped, … tied … to a pillar, and then … blows were inflicted with leathern thongs, weighted with jagged … bone [or rock]. … The victim generally fainted, [or] often died” (Farrar,  p. 624).When the cross had been prepared, they placed it upon His shoulders and led Him to Golgotha. “But Jesus was enfeebled … by [hours] of violent … agitation, … by an evening of deep … emotion, … by the mental [anguish] of the garden, [and] by [the] three trials and three sentences of death before the Jews. … All [of] these, [added] to the [wounds] of the scourging [and loss of blood], had utterly broken … His physical strength” (ibid., pp. 634–35). So a bystander was enlisted to carry the heavy cross.At Calvary, Christ was laid down upon the cross. “His arms were stretched along the cross-beams; and at the centre of the open palms, the point of a huge iron nail was placed, … [and] driven … [through the quivering flesh] into the wood” (ibid., p. 639). His feet were also nailed to the cross, which was slowly raised and fixed firmly in the ground. “ the voices about Him rang with blasphemy and spite, and in that long slow agony His dying ear caught no [words] of gratitude, of pity, or of love” (ibid., p. 644). Every movement would be agony to the fresh wounds in the hands and the feet. “Dizziness, … thirst, … sleeplessness, … fever, … long [hours] of torment. … Such was the death to which Christ was doomed” (ibid., p. 641).Jesus was nailed to the cross on that fateful Friday morning, probably between nine and ten o’clock. “At noontide the light of the sun was obscured, and black darkness spread over the whole land. The terrifying gloom continued for a period of three hours. … It was a fitting sign of the earth’s deep mourning over the impending death of her Creator” (Talmage,  pp. 612–13).At the ninth hour Christ uttered that anguished cry, “‘My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?’”  “In that bitterest hour the dying Christ was alone. [So] that the supreme sacrifice of the Son might be consummated in all its fulness, the Father seems to have withdrawn … His immediate Presence, leaving to the Savior of men the glory of complete victory over the forces of sin and death” (ibid., p. 661).Later, “realizing that He was no longer forsaken, but that His atoning sacrifice had been accepted by the Father, and that His mission in the flesh had been carried to glorious consummation, He exclaimed in a loud voice of holy triumph:  In reverence, resignation, and relief, He addressed the Father saying:  He bowed His head, and voluntarily gave up His life” (ibid., p. 615).“At that moment the vail of the Temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom. An earthquake shook the earth. … The multitude, [now] utterly sobered, … returned to Jerusalem” (Farrar,  pp. 651–52).Christ’s body was lovingly taken from the cross, placed on fine linen purchased by Joseph of Arimathea, covered with rich spices, and carried to a nearby garden where a new tomb belonging to Joseph was located.It was now late in the afternoon, and “the preparations had to be hurried, because when the sun had set the Sabbath would have begun. All that they could do, therefore, was to wash [and lay the precious body] amid the spices, to wrap the head in a white napkin, to roll the fine linen round … the wounded limbs, and to lay the body reverently in the rocky niche” (ibid., p. 659). Then a great stone was rolled across the opening of the tomb.On the dawn of that first-ever Easter morn, the two Marys, along with other women, carried their precious spices and ointments to the tomb to finish preparing the body. They wondered who would help them remove the stone from the opening of the sepulchre. To their amazement, they found the heavy stone already rolled away, the body of Jesus gone, and two angels in white bearing witness that Christ had risen from the dead. The two women hurried to the disciples with their news. John and Peter rushed to the tomb to find that it was so. The grave was empty. [see Mary of Magdala returned once more to the tomb and there uttered the words, “They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him”  And then Jesus Himself stood before her and said to her, “Mary”  Now that she recognized Him, He gently instructed her, “Touch me not; for I [have] not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God”  And she hastened to obey.After rising from the tomb on the third day after His crucifixion, Jesus appeared not only to Mary but to the other women also [see   A third appearance of Jesus was to Peter [see  and  On the same day, two of the disciples were on their way to the village named Emmaus when Christ joined with them [see  Once more, for the fifth time on that memorable Easter day, Jesus manifested Himself to His disciples. Ten of them were gathered together seeking solace when Christ appeared before them.“Peace be unto you,” He said.“Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have” Later on, at the seashore at Galilee, while the Savior and the disciples were eating fish together, Jesus asked Peter, “Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?”“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my lambs.”“Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?” He asked again.“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my sheep.”A third time: “Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?”In anguish, Peter said, “Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.”And the Savior replied yet again, “Feed my sheep” (see As the place of His ascension, Jesus chose the Mount of Olives. Here on the Mount the Savior instructed the Apostles and those whom He had commissioned:“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world” This is our mandate. This is why we go to all nations of the earth proclaiming His gospel.Eliza R. Snow, who loved this work—as do I—wrote these precious lines:The prophet Alma taught that the plan of mercy required an atonement to be made by God himself “to appease the demands of justice,” that God might be a perfect, just, and merciful God  I bear witness that He lives, that He is our Savior. His is the pathway to true happiness, I declare in His holy name, Jesus Christ, amen.My beloved brethren and sisters, I add my testimony to the testimony of my brethren this Easter morning. For all of Christendom, for all of mankind, today is observed as the anniversary of the greatest miracle in human history. It is the miracle that encompasses all who have lived upon the earth, all who now live upon the earth, and all who will yet live upon the earth. Nothing done before or since has so affected mankind as the atonement wrought by Jesus of Nazareth, who died on Calvary’s cross, was buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, and on the third day arose from the grave as the Living Son of the Living God—the Savior and Redeemer of the world.As mortals we all must die. Death is as much a part of eternal life as is birth. Looked at through mortal eyes, without comprehension of the eternal plan of God, death is a bleak, final, and unrelenting experience described by Shakespeare as “the undiscover’d country, from whose bourn / No traveller returns” ( act 3, scene 1, lines 79–80).But our Eternal Father, whose children we are, made possible a far better thing through the sacrifice of His Only Begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. This had to be. Can anyone believe that the Great Creator would provide for life and growth and achievement only to snuff it all into oblivion in the process of death? Reason says no. Justice demands a better answer. The God of heaven has given one. The Lord Jesus Christ provided it.His was the ultimate sacrifice, His the sublime victory.Doubters there may be. But is there a more fully attested experience in the history of humankind than the resurrection of Jesus that first Easter morn? He spoke with Mary, who was first at the tomb. He spoke with the other women who ran to tell their brethren, two of whom came running. He appeared unto ten of His Apostles, Thomas being absent. And then He came again when Thomas was present. The doubter, upon seeing Him, declared, “My Lord and my God”  He talked with the two brethren on the way to Emmaus, and they said, “Did not our heart burn within us … ?”  And Paul declared that “after that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once” Then Paul adds that “last of all he was seen of me” All of this and more is found in the New Testament. It has served as the foundation of the faith of uncounted millions across the world into whose hearts there has come the witness of the Holy Spirit that it is true. They have lived by this testimony, and they have died by it. When the dark shadow of death has crossed their paths, when hope normally would have fled, there has come the reassurance that “as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive”  In such hours of darkness there has shown forth a light, steady and certain, to sustain and comfort and bless.But if that is not enough, there is another testament. This so-called Book of Mormon, this scripture of the New World, is before us as an added witness of the divinity and reality of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the encompassing beneficence of His atonement, and of His coming forth from the darkness of the grave. Within these covers is found much of the sure word of prophecy concerning Him who should be born of a virgin, the Son of the Almighty God. There is a foretelling of His work among men as a living mortal. There is a declaration of His death, of the lamb without blemish who was to be sacrificed for the sins of the world. And there is an account that is moving and inspiring and true of the visit of the resurrected Christ among living men and women in the western continent. The testimony is here to handle; it is here to be read; it is here to be pondered; it is here to be prayed over with a promise that he who prays shall know by the power of the Holy Ghost of its truth and validity (see And again, if this is not enough, there is the testimony of a prophet, whose name was Joseph, who sealed with his blood the testimony of his Lord. Today we celebrate the anniversary of Easter. This year we commemorate the 150th anniversary of the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On the sultry afternoon of 27 June 1844, he and his brother Hyrum were killed by an armed mob, the members of which had painted their faces black to hide their identity. John Taylor, who was with them on that occasion and who was wounded, later wrote this appraisal:“Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. … He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord’s anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. … Their innocent blood … is a witness to the truth of the everlasting gospel that all the world cannot impeach” Because this is the sesquicentennial year of that tragic event, I wish to say a few words about the leading character on each side of that equation at Carthage. On the one side was Joseph the prophet-martyr; on the other, Thomas Ford, governor of Illinois, whose broken pledge culminated in the tragedies of that day.Joseph Smith and Thomas Ford were contemporaries. Governor Ford was born in Pennsylvania in 1800. Joseph Smith was born in Vermont in 1805. The governor was five years the Prophet’s senior. My information concerning the Prophet comes from sources with which all of you are familiar. That which I have concerning the governor comes from his own writings and for the most part from a historical introduction to those writings written by M. M. Quaife, as well as an introduction by General James Shields to the first edition of Ford’s  I am indebted to Mrs. Doris M. Davis of Peoria for research help. I give these details so that you may know that what I say comes from sources that may be regarded as reliable.Joseph Smith died at the age of 38 in 1844. He would have been 39 the following December.Governor Ford died in 1850, a month prior to his fiftieth birthday. He completed his term as governor in 1846, and moved to the farm of his wife’s parents, where he wrote his In this history, he gives a rather detailed account of the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. He concludes with this summary statement: “Thus fell Joe Smith, the most successful impostor in modern times; a man who, though ignorant and coarse, had some great natural parts which fitted him for temporary success, but which were so obscured and counteracted by the inherent corruption and vices of his nature that he never could succeed in establishing a system of policy which looked to permanent success in the future” ( 2 vols., Chicago: Lakeside Press, 1946, 2:213).Such the appraisal of Joseph Smith by Thomas Ford.I wish not to be critical of Governor Ford. I feel sorry for him. I regard him as one who sowed the wind and reaped the whirlwind.In April of 1847, when our people began the long westward march from Winter Quarters on the Missouri to the valley of the Great Salt Lake, Governor Ford and his family moved to Peoria with the intent that he would there practice law. I now quote from Mr. Quaife:“The story of his three-years’ sojourn there is one of unrelieved poverty and defeat. Mrs. Ford, afflicted with cancer, died October 12, 1850, at the early age of thirty-eight. Three weeks later, on November 3, he followed her to the grave. Left behind were five orphan children, penniless and of tender years, to face the world as best they might. To the credit of common humanity all were taken in charge by considerate townsmen and reared in homes which were better than their own father could provide. In his closing weeks he had been an object of charity, and his funeral expenses were met by the gifts of a group of citizens” (ibid., 1:xxvi, xxvii).Both he and his wife were buried in the Peoria City Cemetery. Their remains were later moved to the Springdale Cemetery, where the grave remained unmarked until 1896, when the legislature provided an appropriation of $1,200 for the monument that now marks the site of his burial.I have stood before that monument and pondered the events and circumstances of which I speak.After the governor’s death and after his debts were paid, there remained the sum of $148.06 for distribution among his five children as their inheritance.In his introduction to Ford’s  General James Shields relates: “In 1850 while the author of this work was on his death-bed, he placed in my hands a manuscript, with the contents of which I was then wholly unacquainted, with the injunction that after his decease I should have it published for the benefit of his family. He soon after departed this life, leaving his orphan children in a destitute condition.” The royalties from the sale of the book yielded $750, making it possible for each of his five children to receive $150 as their meager financial inheritance beyond the $29.61 left each by their father.The eldest daughter married; her husband died in 1878; she lived until 1910, the last few years cared for by others. The second daughter married, reared a family, and died in St. Louis. The younger daughter, born in 1841, died at the age of 21 of “consumption,” and was buried with her parents. Concerning the two sons, I quote again from Mr. Quaife:“In the autumn of 1872 Thomas [the youngest son] was hung as a horse thief near Caldwell, Kansas, by a lynching party. Two years later, in 1874, Seuel [his brother] and two other outlaws were hung from the same branch of a tree near Wellington, Kansas, by another lynching party” (ibid., 1:xxxii). They were buried in unmarked graves on the Kansas prairie.I mention these things to say that there was tragedy on both sides of the Carthage problem. Joseph and Hyrum were murdered. Governor Thomas Ford, who had pledged the protection of the state of Illinois, and failed to provide it, fell upon tragic and sorrowful circumstances, dying in abject poverty and leaving a destitute family who for the most part also lived with disappointment and died with much of misery.While Governor Ford wrote his dismal appraisal of Joseph Smith, another contemporary, Parley P. Pratt, wrote one of his own. Speaking of Joseph Smith at that time, he said:“His work will live to endless ages, and unnumbered millions yet unborn will mention his name with honor, as a noble instrument in the hands of God, who, during his short and youthful career, laid the foundation of that kingdom spoken of by Daniel, the prophet, which should break in pieces all other kingdoms and stand forever”[see   ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1979, p. 46).Parley Pratt wrote with a surer sense of prophecy than did Tom Ford. He wrote out of a spirit of love, yes, but also with something of a vision of this great millennial movement.The shadow of the events of June 1844 has now lengthened over a century and a half. That shadow has reached across a substantial part of the world. The history is clear, and it is wonderful to survey. It is a poignant and tremendous story, an epic without parallel. Two years after the martyrdom, while the governor was writing his history, most of our people left Nauvoo, their beloved city on the Mississippi. They left behind their beautiful and comfortable homes. They left their magnificent temple. Their exodus began in February of 1846 in the cold of winter, so cold that the Mississippi froze and some were able to cross on the ice. They did not leave out of a desire to go. They had to leave, driven by the bitter and unrelenting hatred of vicious mobs.They threaded their way across the Iowa prairie to the Missouri River at Council Bluffs, then named Kanesville. Here they established their Winter Quarters. The next spring they moved up the Elkhorn River and along the Platte, across what is now Nebraska and Wyoming, and on to the valley of the Great Salt Lake. Death marched beside them. Some six thousand were buried along that trail before completion of the transcontinental railroad in 1869. Here in the valleys of the mountains they grubbed sagebrush, they fought crickets, they brought water from the canyon streams to make the desert blossom. From that time until this, the work has spread over the earth until today congregations in more than 165 different tongues and more than 140 nations sing of Joseph Smith the tribute given by W. W. Phelps:[The following text includes a segment prepared for delivery but deleted due to time constraints.]Church membership is now approaching nine million. Last year alone, more than 4.5 million copies of the Book of Mormon were printed and distributed as “Another Testament of Jesus Christ.” Thousands of meetinghouses, with more than 21,000 congregations, and scores of beautiful temples carry the name of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Governor Ford could not see the virtues of this man whose blood stained the floor of the little jail in Carthage. But an angel from heaven years earlier had spoken the destiny of the boy Joseph. Said Moroni: “Your name shall be known among the nations, for the work which the Lord will perform by your hands shall cause the righteous to rejoice and the wicked to rage: with the one it shall be had in honor, and with the other in reproach; yet, with these it shall be a terror because of the great and marvelous work which shall follow the coming forth of this fulness of my gospel” ( 2:394–95).One hundred and fifty years have now passed. We are grateful for the reconciliation which has come. We thank God our Eternal Father for a more tolerant day and greater understanding. Gone are the days of burnings and forced marches. The sunshine of goodwill is upon our people. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints now owns the scene of the martyrdom, the Carthage Jail with the block on which it stands. It has been made beautiful and attractive for the tens of thousands who visit from many nations. Nauvoo is a place of goodwill, a remnant of a remarkable history. The site of the once-beautiful temple has become a scene of reverent curiosity. Today there is a stake of Zion which carries the name Nauvoo. And north of Chicago is a magnificently beautiful temple in which are administered ordinances of salvation to benefit the sons and daughters of God of all generations, a work which has come through the priesthood revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, a work which extends to the generations of the past the wondrous opportunities afforded by the atonement of the Savior of mankind.On another occasion Joseph had been incarcerated in another jail, that in Liberty, Missouri. In the misery of that foul place he cried out, “O God, where art thou?” In answer to that prayer came this remarkable promise:“The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee;“While the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand.“And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors” You and I are witnesses to the fulfillment of these remarkable and prophetic words. As I speak today I am heard in thousands of halls across this and other nations. This is but a small token of the fulfillment of that promise. And what we see today, I am certain, is but a foreshadowing of what the future holds.Joseph Smith lived as an instrument in the hands of the Lord for the establishment of His restored work in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. He died in testimony of the Savior of mankind. The Church which was established through him carries the name of the Redeemer of the world. Out of a vision wondrous and beautiful, experienced in the prime and vigor of his life, the Prophet Joseph wrote these words which confirm the truth of that first Easter morning and the glory of Him from whom he drew all of his inspiration as the Prophet of this great latter-day dispensation. Said he:“And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—“That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God” And so, on this Easter Sabbath, we bear testimony of the Redeemer of the world, He who was born the Only Begotten of the Father, He who went about doing good in the exercise of His divine power, He who died on Calvary’s hill, and He who rose to become the first fruits of the Resurrection. We testify to the truth of the words of the Apostles and other witnesses of old. We further confirm the truth of the testimony of the great seer and revelator of this dispensation, the Prophet Joseph Smith, who 150 years ago gave his life as a witness of the Risen Redeemer. And by the power of the Holy Ghost, we give our personal testimony that He who was slain on Calvary’s hill rose from the dead, our Savior, whose sacrifice made possible the gift of eternal life to all who will keep His commandments. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, amen.