Three of my granddaughters are young women. They think it’s amazing that I can actually remember when I was their age. I really do remember many things—some hard things and some really good things. I especially remember a time when I was very happy. I was seventeen years old. My friends and I went to a fireside where the speaker taught us about our Savior’s love.He told us that we could have confidence in the Savior, that He would lead us, that He would be there for us, that our faith in Him could increase and we could feel greater happiness than we had ever known.But we needed to participate. We needed to do something. We needed to choose to believe in the Savior and His love; we needed to ask for His help, and then we needed to practice thinking about Him all through the day.The speaker suggested that to help us remember to think about the Savior, we could listen to the school bell that rang often during the day. Each time we heard the bell, we were to say a silent prayer, even with our eyes open, even walking down the hall. We could thank our Heavenly Father for our blessings, especially for our Savior. We could tell Him of our love and ask for His help. He taught us that in just a few seconds, many times during the day, we could practice thinking about our Heavenly Father and Savior.There was something else: the speaker suggested that almost immediately we move from praying about ourselves to praying for someone else—a friend, a teacher, a stranger—and asking Heavenly Father to bless that person.He also warned us that all of this might seem awkward at first but that if we chose to try, we could truly be filled with His love, our faith really would grow, and we would feel joy.That sounded wonderful to me. I decided to try. I could not believe how many times the bell rang each day. When I heard it, I stopped. “Heavenly Father, thank you. Please bless me and bless Dorene. I know she’s having struggles.” It was awkward at first, but soon I found myself thinking about my Heavenly Father and Savior, not only when the bell rang but many times during the day. I remember walking across a muddy field one morning and seeing a tiny yellow flower. It was probably a weed, but to me it was beautiful, and I felt that He had created it just for me. I loved Him so much. My faith had increased, and I was happy.Choosing to increase our faith in the Savior isn’t easy. It takes work, but the feelings inside of peace and joy and love are worth all our efforts.Sometimes when we try hard to make changes—good changes—we have a lot of distractions and obstacles. One of my favorite scripture stories is about Peter. As I read this story to you, think about Peter and what happened when he was distracted.Jesus and His disciples had just finished feeding five thousand people with five loaves of bread and two fishes. Jesus asked “his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him. …“And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone.“But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.“And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.“And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.“But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.“And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.“And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.“But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.“And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?” I think that’s a wonderful story.Peter chose to believe in Jesus. He asked Jesus if he could come to Him, and he really did walk on the water. But when he began to pay more attention to what was happening around him, “the wind boisterous,” he began to sink.What are the winds boisterous in our lives? What are the things that distract us from the Savior, that turn our hearts and our minds away from Him? It may be thinking more about pleasing our friends or other people than we do about pleasing God (see  It may be the loud and confusing voices we hear on TV, in videos, in music. Sometimes we just don’t care. Our hearts are hard (see  There will always be distractions, winds boisterous, but if we choose to turn to the Lord, to believe in Him, to follow Him, we can increase our faith.When Peter began to sink, he turned to the Lord and cried out, “Lord, save me,” and Jesus immediately “stretched forth his hand, and caught him.” He will do that for you. He will do that for each one of us.What can we do to turn to the Savior? What can we do to increase our faith in Him? There are many things we can do. I have chosen just three:In the scriptures it says, “But without faith it is impossible to please him”; and to please him we must “believe that he is” Choosing to believe is an important step in increasing our faith in the Savior. It has to be our choice. No one can make that choice for you. If I stand in front of a mirror and look myself in the eye and say, “I choose to believe in the Savior,” that helps me; then whenever I look in a mirror it reminds me of my choice.Another thing we can do is to ask for help, then listen. Our Father and Savior want us to have more faith. Faith is a gift, but it must be sought after. We can seek after faith by asking for more faith in our prayers. Could we say, “Heavenly Father, please help me have more faith”?Harder than asking is listening. We can listen in our hearts and hear Their voice. We can listen in the scriptures and hear Their word. We can listen to our prophet and leaders and hear their testimonies of faith. We can increase our faith by “hearing … the word of God” And third, we can remember to practice—practice turning to Him, practice thinking about Him. Increasing our faith does take more than choosing to believe and asking. It takes some kind of physical and mental action. It takes practice, diligence, and patience, and it takes obedience. We must be “doers of the word, … not hearers only”  We can practice living righteously by turning to Him, by thinking about Him, by following Him. And then we must help Him with His work by helping others.A bell helped me think about the Savior. Do you have bells in your life?A penny in my husband’s shoe reminded him that he truly was Heavenly Father’s little boy. A penny in your shoe could remind you—ouch—“Thank you, Heavenly Father. I do remember. I do love you and my Savior. I will think about you and follow you.” It really makes no difference what we use to help us remember to think about our Savior. What is important is that we try.I sense the tender feelings in your hearts. I feel that too. I believe we want to follow Him, to trust Him, to please Him, to live righteously, to increase our faith in Him. I believe we can do that as we choose to believe, ask and listen, and practice, and practice, and practice. My testimony is that He loves us so much, that He understands, and that His light will comfort us and guide us as we come unto Him. I love you, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.“Why did it have to be me?” That’s a question we’ve all asked ourselves during hard times. Family difficulties, loneliness, awkwardness, problems with school—“why did it have to be me?” What would help? What is the answer?President Gordon B. Hinckley, First Counselor in the First Presidency, said, “Of all our needs, I think the greatest is an increase in faith” ( Nov. 1987, p. 54).Could faith be the answer? We all know that more faith won’t make our problems disappear. But I believe as our faith increases, we become more able to not only survive the hard times but become better because of them. I believe faith is the answer.Listen with your ears and hearts tonight, because every song and talk and video segment is planned to help you leave this meeting understanding more about faith—what it is, how it would help, how to increase it.Faith is the first of the Young Women Values: “I am a daughter of a Heavenly Father who loves me, and I will have faith in his eternal plan, which centers in Jesus Christ, my Savior” ( Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1989, p. 7).When we bring that definition into everyday language, faith means that I really believe that:Now I’d like to tell you three simple stories. We’ll begin with a familiar one.God loved Moses. He called him “my son”  He watched over him as a tiny baby wrapped in a blanket and placed in a basket in the bulrushes (see  As part of God’s plan for Moses, he miraculously came to be raised in the courts of the pharaoh. Then God led Moses to Jethro, who taught him the ways of righteousness. Moses kept the commandments of God. As God asked more and more difficult things of him, Moses obeyed. He even went to the pharaoh, despite his fears and feelings of inadequacy, repeatedly demanding that Pharaoh free the children of Israel from bondage—“Let my people go” The Lord showed forth miracles to the pharaoh, but he continued to refuse Moses’ request, until his own firstborn son was struck dead. Then in fear, Pharaoh “called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up, and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel; and go, serve the Lord. …“Take your flocks and your herds, … and be gone” And so six hundred thousand Israelite men and about one-and-a-half million women and children left Egypt on foot. “The Lord went before them … to lead … the way” But by the time they had reached the Red Sea, Pharaoh had changed his mind. He wanted his six hundred thousand slaves back, so with a host of chariots he pursued them. With the churning and impassable Red Sea in front and the thundering army coming from behind, the Israelites were paralyzed with fear. They forgot, in the terror of the moment, who was really in charge of their future. They forgot the miracles they had already seen. They forgot that God knew them. And they cried out to Moses: “It had been better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.“And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still. …“The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace” And they remembered their faith. You know the next part of the story: “The Lord … made the sea dry land. …“And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left” The Egyptians pursued them, “and the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and [of] all the host of Pharaoh … there remained not … one of them. …“Thus the Lord saved Israel. …“And the people … believed the Lord, and his servant Moses” My great-great-grandmother’s name was Mary Goble Pay. She was twelve years old and living in Brighton, England, when the missionaries taught her family the gospel. The year was 1855, and all Mary’s mother could think of was to join the other Saints in Utah. And so the following spring Mary’s mother, father, and four younger brothers and sisters boarded the ship  for America.By the time they could get outfitted and started on the trail, it was the middle of July. Winter storms came early that year, and the Gobles spent five terrible months on the trail between St. Louis and Salt Lake City. Mary wrote: “We had to keep close to [the handcart companies] to help them if we could. We began to get short of food and our cattle gave out” ( ed. Richard H. Cracroft and Neal E. Lambert, Provo: Brigham Young University Press, 1974, p. 144). Many died—among them Mary’s two-year-old sister, her five-year-old brother, and Edith, a baby sister born on the trail and buried in Wyoming.And then when all seemed lost, the stranded Saints were miraculously rescued by men and teams sent by Brigham Young. But even as the handcart companies crossed the final mountain into the valley, Mary’s mother died.Mary describes the scene: “We arrived in Salt Lake City nine o’clock at night the 11th of December 1856. Three out of four who were living were frozen. My mother was dead in the wagon. …“[We were] taken to a home … and the sisters brought us plenty of food. …“Early next morning Bro. Brigham Young and a doctor came. … When Bro. Young came in he shook hands with us all. When he saw our condition—our feet frozen and our mother dead—tears rolled down his cheeks” (ibid., p. 145).Well, Mary grew up. She married a good man. They had thirteen children whom they taught to love the gospel. She said it made her sad to talk about that trip across the plains, but she always remembered her mother’s words: “I want to go to Zion while my children are small, so they can be raised in the Gospel of Christ. For I know this is the true Church.” Mary concludes, “I think my mother had her wish” (ibid., pp. 149–50).When I was fifteen years old, my mother suggested that I get a patriarchal blessing. Although I hadn’t thought of doing so, her suggestion felt right, and preparations were made. I don’t remember the interview with my bishop or making the appointment, but I do remember an increasing sense of reluctance as the day approached.My anxiety was all about my future. I had heard story after story of remarkable blessings with unusual promises. Some days I felt extraordinary—as if there were special things ahead for me. But usually I felt ordinary—even invisible some days. What if I didn’t have anything in my future? Better not to know. Maybe there wouldn’t be anything for the patriarch to say, and the blessing would only be one or two sentences long. I wondered if I would go on a mission—would I marry—would there be children—how many?As you can see, I didn’t really understand the difference between a patriarchal blessing and a Chinese fortune cookie. But I did understand one important difference: I didn’t believe in messages in cookies, but I did believe in patriarchal blessings.I was prepared to believe anything that was said, or not said.The anticipated day arrived. I went with my parents to the patriarch’s cozy little study. As he placed his hands on my head, there was a steadiness that vaporized all uncertainty. I remember the surprise and wonder of that day, but also of every other time I have read that blessing—the startling news: He  me. Heavenly Father knows  And he has a plan for my future. I don’t need to know all the details, but if I do my part, it will turn out wonderfully well.Now, I have told you these stories tonight for a very important reason. Each of them belongs to you—the Israelites of ancient times are  people. The miracles God provided them are part of  spiritual heritage. The pioneers are  people. It makes no difference whether their names appear on your pedigree chart. The miracles God provided them are a part of  personal spiritual heritage. If God did it for Moses by the Red Sea, for Mary Goble Pay on the plains of America, for me under the hands of a patriarch, he will do it for you!Remember, remember, remember how God has worked in these lives. Remember how he has worked in your life. Write in your journal about the times when you have felt his love for you. Write about the times when he has intervened in subtle or obvious ways, to make everything work out okay for you. And when you feel abandoned and desperate, those memories will renew your faith and keep you trusting until you understand better.Now, pay attention to your feelings as I define faith one last time:Did you notice how you felt? Even talking about faith brings feelings of peace and steadiness, doesn’t it? Faith is the answer. I need more faith. You need more faith. Heavenly Father, increase our faith, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.