It is time for my response. Nineteen years ago, after my being set apart by the Quorum of the Twelve in the temple as an assistant to the Twelve Apostles, Elder LeGrand Richards gave me two pieces of wisdom that have come to me over and over in the past fifty-some-odd hours that I have known of this call. First was, “Oh, to be a boy and have your whole life ahead of you.” I was forty-two years of age. I am now sixty-one and am once again a boy. There are men sitting on this stand who have been Apostles and in the First Presidency for half my age.The second gem of wisdom that Elder LeGrand Richards gave me was that each time a new assignment in the Church came to him, it was like the shaking of an oak tree: when the tree shook, an acorn would fall and be planted, allowing him a new beginning in that assignment. “You know, my life has been like a great oak tree. From a tiny acorn, I would grow a great oak tree.” Then he said, “I did it in business, and the oak tree shook. An acorn came down, and they sent me out as a mission president. Then I grew another oak tree; they sent me out a second time as a mission president, and then a third.” Then he talked of being a Presiding Bishop. And each time the oak tree would shake, an acorn would be planted.At this time, I understand the oak tree has shaken. An acorn has been planted; it is a new beginning.I express gratitude, my brothers and sisters, for the strength which comes through your faith and prayers. I am in need of your prayers at this time of my calling. To be an Apostle of the Lord, I am finding, is a process—a process of repentance and humility, to look inward as we’ve been instructed and ask for forgiveness and strength to be what I should be. Unfortunately, I am not a perfect man, and infallibility does not come with the call. Therefore, I must ask for forgiveness from Heavenly Father for those things which I have done which are less than perfect and ask forgiveness of anyone I might have offended knowingly or unknowingly because of my personality or style.The strength which will come through your prayers will be invaluable to what I need to do to forge the spiritual strength required to have my voice and my testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ penetrate the hearts of those who will hear.I express my appreciation to my parents, my dear brother who has passed away, and my sister for their loving example. I am grateful for the many teachers, and the priesthood leaders who work week after week, teaching us as youth to love the Lord. I wish, also, to express appreciation and my deep love for my wife, children, and grandchildren. I have been privileged to work among the finest Brethren that this earth can have in the Quorum of the Seventy—working together and forging our testimonies to further the Lord’s work.In the closing of this chapter of my stewardship as the Presiding Bishop, I wish to welcome and sustain Bishop Bateman as the new Presiding Bishop of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and let him know of the marvelous experiences that he will have in his calling.I love the four Counselors who have served with me, Elder Eyring, Elder Pace, Bishop Burton, and Bishop Edgley. They are deeply spiritual and truly devoted men whose love for the Lord has been an example to me. I would also like to express thanks and appreciation to the loyal staff in the Presiding Bishopric’s office, both at Church headquarters and around the world. My expression of appreciation would not be complete without communicating my thanks for the faithful talents and labors of the Saints around the world.We have such faithful members of the Church. I have known of the tithes and offerings and the freewill offerings that have led to welfare and humanitarian efforts. This is a marvelous work and a marvelous Church with magnificent members. Each, in their own individual callings, live the gospel and are an example to those of us who travel the world and meet them.My testimony grew as I grew—nourished and taught by countless others who helped me by their example of living the gospel. I shall be eternally grateful for the many good people who, in serving the Lord, have blessed my life.I bear witness to what President Hinckley taught last night in priesthood meeting about Church government. Over the past nine years, on a daily basis, I have seen the wisdom of the Lord’s plan as it functions under today’s circumstances.But that closes the chapter. The oak tree is shaken. The acorn is planted, and this is Easter—commemoration of the Savior coming forth after three days as the resurrected, risen Lord. For the rest of my sojourn here in mortality, I will have the opportunity to bear testimony as a special witness of our Savior, Jesus Christ.Jesus Christ is a God; he is Jehovah of the Old Testament (see  he is the Savior of the New Testament.Jesus Christ dwelt in the heavens with his Father (see  and we dwelt with them as spirit children of God the Father.Jesus Christ presented his Father’s eternal plan, that plan of which we are all part. We come to this earth to undergo testing for a probationary period and to have opposition in all things. Through the eternal principle of agency, we are free to choose liberty and eternal life and return with honor to God’s presence if we live righteous lives; or to choose captivity and spiritual death (see Jesus Christ is the creator of all things on earth, under the direction of his Father (see  “The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world”  Jesus Christ came to this earth, born of Mary, a mortal mother. His Father was Almighty God (see Jesus Christ was baptized by immersion by John the Baptist, and the Holy Ghost was manifest in the “Spirit like a dove descending upon him”  And his Father spoke: “Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” Jesus Christ organized his church and selected twelve Apostles, and also prophets, seventies, and evangelists (see   Jesus Christ’s message is unique. He stands between us and his Father; he is the Mediator (see   Through him shall all mankind be saved and by him shall all mankind be saved.Jesus Christ is the Redeemer, our Savior; only he with a mortal mother and an immortal Father could fulfill the Atonement and die to save all mankind. He did so of his own free will and choice (see   Jesus Christ was resurrected and appeared to many after his resurrection (see   He taught us the physical characteristics of a resurrected being and told us that we could follow his example and that we would be able to progress and be like him.Jesus Christ’s ascension into heaven before the eyes of his disciples was accompanied by the promise that in like manner he would come again (see    The second coming of Jesus Christ is nigh at hand, as the signs of the Second Coming are being fulfilled this very day.Jesus Christ appeared with his Father and restored the same organization he established during his ministry through Joseph Smith the Prophet in these latter days. In addition to the Bible, the Book of Mormon was revealed to the world as another witness to testify of his divine calling and ministry.Jesus Christ leads and guides his church today through revelation to a prophet, President Ezra Taft Benson, and his counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles—the same organization he established when he was here on earth (see  Jesus Christ’s admonition to “come … follow me” and “follow thou me” is the challenge that he gave to each of us (see   He lived in the preexistence in the spirit world; he dwelt and we dwelt with God the Father. He is the Son, Jesus Christ.We took a mortal body upon us. We will have opposition; we will taste death and be resurrected because of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ.May I close my testimony in the same words as the prophet Mormon did shortly after recounting the birth of the Savior:“Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. I have been called of him to declare his word among his people, that they might have everlasting life” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I pray for a portion of your faith and prayers as I bear witness of Christ. In the hearts of all mankind, of whatever race or station in life, there are inexpressible longings for something they do not now possess. This longing is implanted by a concerned Creator.A loving Heavenly Father’s design is that this longing of the human heart should lead to the One who alone can satisfy it—even Jesus of Nazareth, who was foreordained in the Grand Council before the earth was created.To the brother of Jared, the premortal Jesus said:“Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. … In me shall all mankind have life, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name” Today is Easter—a day designated to solemnize the bodily resurrection of the Savior of the world. As members of His restored church, it is imperative that we do our utmost to expand our understanding of His premortal commission, His earthly ministry, His unjust crucifixion, the agony of His suffering, His final sacrifice, and His resurrection. Each of us is profoundly indebted to Him, for we were purchased by the shedding of His own precious blood. We are surely obligated to follow His admonition, to believe on His name, and to testify of Him and His word.I am indebted for some of my remarks to eyewitness accounts of Christ’s life as recorded in the New Testament; to prophets—ancient and modern—especially to the Prophet Joseph Smith for his personal witness that God the Father and His Son live and for his faithfully following divine instructions in bringing forth the fulness of the everlasting gospel as contained in the Book of Mormon and other latter-day scriptures; also to the apostolic writings of Elders James E. Talmage and Bruce R. McConkie; and to others, including theologian and believer Frederic Farrar. Our scriptures teach us gospel truths, and inspired writers add to our understanding.We have learned that during the last days of His mortal life, Jesus had withdrawn from all public teaching and had spent the Wednesday before Passover in Bethany in seclusion. The next day, Thursday, Jesus instructed Peter and John to go to Jerusalem, where they would find a room prepared so they could meet together. In that room Jesus met with the Twelve, and they sat down to eat.It was custom that as a person entered a room, he laid aside his sandals at the door and his feet were washed to remove the dust from his travels. A servant usually performed this lowly task, but on this sacred night, “Jesus Himself, in His eternal humility and self-denial, rose from His place at the meal to do [this] menial service” (Frederic W. Farrar,  Portland, Or.: Fountain Publications, 1980, p. 557).Jesus said to them:“Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.“If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another’s feet” “He their Lord and Master had washed their feet. It was a kind and gracious task, and such ought to be the nature of all their dealings with each other. He had done it to teach them humility, … self-denial, [and] love” (Farrar,  p. 559).During the course of the meal, He revealed the terrible news that one among them would betray Him, and a deep sadness fell over all of them.Jesus spoke to Judas, “That [which] thou doest, do quickly”  And Judas left the room to do his awful deed.Conscious of the impending events, Jesus opened His heart to His chosen eleven, saying:“Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. …“Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: [but] whither I go, ye cannot come. …“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.“By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” While in that upper room, Jesus—initiating the sacrament—took bread, brake it, prayed over it, and passed it to the disciples, saying, “This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me” And then, passing the cup, He said, “This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you” The Savior prayed to the Father for the Apostles and all believers, saying:“Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:“As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent” The time which remained for Him to be with them was short. He told them of the Holy Ghost, whom He would send to comfort and guide them in truth. He taught them many things that night in the upper room as He tried to prepare them for that which He knew was coming.They rose from the table, united their voices in a hymn, and left the room together to walk to the Garden of Gethsemane and all that awaited them there.“The awful hour of His deepest [suffering] had arrived: … Nothing remained … but the torture of physical pain and … mental anguish. … He … calm[ed] His spirit by prayer and solitude to meet that hour in which all that is evil in the Power of [Satan] should wreak its worst upon the Innocent and Holy [One]. And He must face that hour alone” (Farrar,  p. 575).“My soul,” He said, “is full of anguish, even unto death” (ibid., p. 576) [see  It was not the anguish and fear of pain and death but “the burden … of the world’s sin which lay heavy on His heart” (ibid., p. 579).“He withdrew to find His only consolation in communing with [His Father]. And there He found all that He needed. Before that hour was over He was prepared for the worst that Satan or man could do” (ibid., p. 580).“From the terrible conflict in Gethsemane, Christ emerged a victor. Though in the dark tribulation of that … hour He had pleaded that the bitter cup be removed from His lips, … the Father’s will was never lost sight of” (James E. Talmage,  Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1983, p. 569).And then came Judas with his betraying kiss; Christ’s surrender to His enemies; the arrest of the Son of God and three sham trials before the priests in the Sanhedrin; the insults and the derision of the multitudes; Christ’s appearance before Pontius Pilate, then Herod, then again before Pilate. Then came the final pronouncement of Pilate. After three appeals to the multitude of Jews to spare one of their own fell upon deaf ears, he delivered Jesus to be scourged.“Scourging was the ordinary preliminary to crucifixion. … The … sufferer was publicly stripped, … tied … to a pillar, and then … blows were inflicted with leathern thongs, weighted with jagged … bone [or rock]. … The victim generally fainted, [or] often died” (Farrar,  p. 624).When the cross had been prepared, they placed it upon His shoulders and led Him to Golgotha. “But Jesus was enfeebled … by [hours] of violent … agitation, … by an evening of deep … emotion, … by the mental [anguish] of the garden, [and] by [the] three trials and three sentences of death before the Jews. … All [of] these, [added] to the [wounds] of the scourging [and loss of blood], had utterly broken … His physical strength” (ibid., pp. 634–35). So a bystander was enlisted to carry the heavy cross.At Calvary, Christ was laid down upon the cross. “His arms were stretched along the cross-beams; and at the centre of the open palms, the point of a huge iron nail was placed, … [and] driven … [through the quivering flesh] into the wood” (ibid., p. 639). His feet were also nailed to the cross, which was slowly raised and fixed firmly in the ground. “ the voices about Him rang with blasphemy and spite, and in that long slow agony His dying ear caught no [words] of gratitude, of pity, or of love” (ibid., p. 644). Every movement would be agony to the fresh wounds in the hands and the feet. “Dizziness, … thirst, … sleeplessness, … fever, … long [hours] of torment. … Such was the death to which Christ was doomed” (ibid., p. 641).Jesus was nailed to the cross on that fateful Friday morning, probably between nine and ten o’clock. “At noontide the light of the sun was obscured, and black darkness spread over the whole land. The terrifying gloom continued for a period of three hours. … It was a fitting sign of the earth’s deep mourning over the impending death of her Creator” (Talmage,  pp. 612–13).At the ninth hour Christ uttered that anguished cry, “‘My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?’”  “In that bitterest hour the dying Christ was alone. [So] that the supreme sacrifice of the Son might be consummated in all its fulness, the Father seems to have withdrawn … His immediate Presence, leaving to the Savior of men the glory of complete victory over the forces of sin and death” (ibid., p. 661).Later, “realizing that He was no longer forsaken, but that His atoning sacrifice had been accepted by the Father, and that His mission in the flesh had been carried to glorious consummation, He exclaimed in a loud voice of holy triumph:  In reverence, resignation, and relief, He addressed the Father saying:  He bowed His head, and voluntarily gave up His life” (ibid., p. 615).“At that moment the vail of the Temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom. An earthquake shook the earth. … The multitude, [now] utterly sobered, … returned to Jerusalem” (Farrar,  pp. 651–52).Christ’s body was lovingly taken from the cross, placed on fine linen purchased by Joseph of Arimathea, covered with rich spices, and carried to a nearby garden where a new tomb belonging to Joseph was located.It was now late in the afternoon, and “the preparations had to be hurried, because when the sun had set the Sabbath would have begun. All that they could do, therefore, was to wash [and lay the precious body] amid the spices, to wrap the head in a white napkin, to roll the fine linen round … the wounded limbs, and to lay the body reverently in the rocky niche” (ibid., p. 659). Then a great stone was rolled across the opening of the tomb.On the dawn of that first-ever Easter morn, the two Marys, along with other women, carried their precious spices and ointments to the tomb to finish preparing the body. They wondered who would help them remove the stone from the opening of the sepulchre. To their amazement, they found the heavy stone already rolled away, the body of Jesus gone, and two angels in white bearing witness that Christ had risen from the dead. The two women hurried to the disciples with their news. John and Peter rushed to the tomb to find that it was so. The grave was empty. [see Mary of Magdala returned once more to the tomb and there uttered the words, “They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him”  And then Jesus Himself stood before her and said to her, “Mary”  Now that she recognized Him, He gently instructed her, “Touch me not; for I [have] not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God”  And she hastened to obey.After rising from the tomb on the third day after His crucifixion, Jesus appeared not only to Mary but to the other women also [see   A third appearance of Jesus was to Peter [see  and  On the same day, two of the disciples were on their way to the village named Emmaus when Christ joined with them [see  Once more, for the fifth time on that memorable Easter day, Jesus manifested Himself to His disciples. Ten of them were gathered together seeking solace when Christ appeared before them.“Peace be unto you,” He said.“Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have” Later on, at the seashore at Galilee, while the Savior and the disciples were eating fish together, Jesus asked Peter, “Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?”“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my lambs.”“Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?” He asked again.“Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.”“Feed my sheep.”A third time: “Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?”In anguish, Peter said, “Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.”And the Savior replied yet again, “Feed my sheep” (see As the place of His ascension, Jesus chose the Mount of Olives. Here on the Mount the Savior instructed the Apostles and those whom He had commissioned:“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world” This is our mandate. This is why we go to all nations of the earth proclaiming His gospel.Eliza R. Snow, who loved this work—as do I—wrote these precious lines:The prophet Alma taught that the plan of mercy required an atonement to be made by God himself “to appease the demands of justice,” that God might be a perfect, just, and merciful God  I bear witness that He lives, that He is our Savior. His is the pathway to true happiness, I declare in His holy name, Jesus Christ, amen.