I am a stake Young Women leader, and like leaders in wards and stakes around the world, I’ve been looking for significant ways to nourish the word. Gratefully, we can turn to the formula Alma gives us in chapter 32, verse 41. He says: “But if ye will nourish the word, yea, nourish the tree as it beginneth to grow, by your faith with great diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up unto everlasting life.” Alma commends patience, great diligence, and faith to those who seek to nourish the word.Our patience must come from humility; we can’t force this process. President Boyd K. Packer reminds us: “You can create a climate to foster growth, nourish, and protect; but you cannot force or compel: you must await the growth.“Do not be impatient to gain great spiritual knowledge. Let it grow, help it grow, but do not force it or you will open the way to be misled” ( Jan. 1983, p. 53).As we involve the young women in planning firesides, group reading, and creative ways to share their insights, we are fostering the growth they will surely feel as they experiment upon the word. We can create opportunities to read together, to record individual experiences, and to share through music, art, and the words of testimony. We can testify and be nearby.One group of ward presidents lamented that they’d gotten off to a great start, but now, after being a few weeks into experimenting on the word, they needed a “shot in the arm.” This is where the “great diligence” part comes into play. We must continue to plan with a purpose activities that center on the scriptures. And even stay involved with the scriptures ourselves! Among one group of ward leaders who had committed themselves to read, a Young Women leader commented, “I hate to admit it, but you know, this really is hard for me.” Others in the group obviously appreciated her honesty as they then expressed some of their own struggles and need to set realistic goals. Surely the young women in that ward will find empathy and very practical helps from leaders who have wrestled to find patience and diligence themselves.Finally, we must have faith that Jesus can and will touch young women’s hearts as we work together toward the worldwide celebration. Faith always has an element of doing.  gives us hope that “if any [young woman] will do his will, [she] shall know of the doctrine.” (That may not be exactly the way you read that, but I feel sure Nephi would approve, since he, too, likened the scriptures to himself.) Service and personal progress projects are real nourishers of the word or doctrine. Our efforts to  really feed our efforts to  and to  the word.And surely our faith must involve prayers for and with our young women in their efforts. My father composed a piece which includes this prayer for all of us:In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.We are all different. Each of us has been given talents as well as challenges. Some of us may have physical or mental limitations; others may be lonely or come from homes that do not teach gospel principles. Because Heavenly Father loves each of us, he has provided us with a source of comfort and strength—the scriptures.My dear friends, I am thankful for this opportunity to share with you my experience with the scriptures.While growing up, I was blessed to come from a home where scriptures were an important part of our lives. I had gone to many Church activities and heard friends and family bear testimony of the power of the scriptures. I had a desire to gain a personal testimony of the power and truthfulness of the scriptures.But that did not happen easily. Because of my learning disability, it was hard to read the words and even more difficult to understand them. I often felt embarrassed and frustrated. I didn’t like to go to Young Women because I felt inadequate. I was afraid I might be called on to read. I felt more comfortable with my family, but I continued to feel frustrated.I prayed for help and I found this scripture. Please turn with me to Moroni 7:33  and I will share with you my answer: “And Christ hath said: If ye will have faith in me ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is expedient in me.”What a wonderful promise! If I would put my faith in the Lord, he would help me. He would help me to understand the scriptures. This was the key for me. One verse at a time, one day at a time, I began to understand. Even my schoolwork improved. The Book of Mormon got me through high school. I still have my learning disability and face challenges every day, but daily scripture study reminds me to have faith in my Heavenly Father.No matter where you live or what kind of family you come from, Heavenly Father loves you and will be there to help and strengthen you whenever you need him. I know this because he has been there for me. I love my family, who understand the challenges I have. I’m grateful for leaders who have worked with me. I know the Church is true. I know the scriptures are there for each of us to learn from. I know that Christ lives. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.