The title of my message is the scriptural phrase “children of the covenant.” In introducing this topic I will reflect on recent events as a colleague of President Howard W. Hunter and as a father and upon earlier experiences as a doctor of medicine.These past weeks have been challenging for Sister Nelson and me. Not only have we bid farewell to our beloved President Hunter, but thirty-three days earlier, we suffered the demise of our precious daughter Emily. A mother of five young children, Emily had just celebrated her thirty-seventh birthday when called to the other side.President Hunter influenced Emily’s life in a real way. She welcomed his invitation for all adult members of the Church to hold a temple recommend. She and her husband, Bradley Wittwer, regarded their regular time in the temple as a sacred privilege. They viewed “the temple of the Lord as the great symbol of their membership and the supernal setting for their most sacred covenants.” She strived to emulate the “example of the Lord Jesus Christ.”Even though illness brought intense suffering to President Hunter and Emily, an angry word never fell from their lips. Instead, they chose to endure with loving faith. When well-meaning friends and family expressed concern for Emily, she cheerfully replied, “Don’t worry, I’ll be OK!” Even when she concluded a telephone call, she did not close with the customary “good-bye.” She would say, “I love you!”When President Boyd K. Packer and I last visited President Hunter, he beckoned for Sister Hunter, reached for her hand, and said with a smile, “I feel better when you are near me.”My tears of sorrow have flowed along with wishes that I could have done more for our daughter and for our President. If I had the power of resurrection, I would have been tempted to bring them back. Though one of the ordained Apostles, each of whom is entrusted with all the keys of the kingdom of God, I do not hold keys of the Resurrection. Jesus Christ holds those keys and will use them for Emily, for President Hunter, and for all people in the Lord’s own time.Emily and President Hunter had no fear of death. They had made and honored sacred covenants with the Lord, and they knew that his covenants to them will be kept with equal fidelity. They lived nobly as “children of the covenant.”Years ago as a young medical student I saw many patients afflicted with diseases that are now preventable. Today it is possible to immunize individuals against conditions that once were disabling—even deadly. One medical method by which acquired immunity is conferred is inoculation. The term  is fascinating. It comes from two Latin roots:  meaning “within”; and  meaning “an eye.” The verb  therefore, literally means “to put an eye within”—to monitor against harm.An affliction like polio can cripple or destroy the body. An affliction like sin can cripple or destroy the spirit. The ravages of polio can now be prevented by immunization, but the ravages of sin require other means of prevention. Doctors cannot immunize against iniquity. Spiritual protection comes only from the Lord—and in his own way. Jesus chooses not to inoculate, but to indoctrinate. His method employs no vaccine; it utilizes the teaching of divine doctrine—a governing “eye within”—to protect the eternal spirits of his children.As I express my appreciation for the privilege of being with you in this historic conference and for the opportunity to sustain our beloved prophet and his associates, I must also express gratitude, first, to the Lord for the opportunity to serve in this holy calling; and second, to all who have nurtured, tutored, and supported me. My family, particularly my wife, Sharon, has always been willing to provide what I have needed. Many friends and colleagues, both in and out of the Church, have tried to understand what this assignment means to me and have been most thoughtful and encouraging. The Brethren have been particularly patient and kind, and I will ever be grateful to those who have lovingly helped me through these many weeks of self-evaluation and adjustment.During this recent process of self-examination, I confess I have wondered what others might think about this appointment which has come to me. I have reflected on the words of the poet Robert Burns, which I modernize with no disrespect intended: “Oh, what … a gift to give us, to see ourselves as others see us” (“To a Louse”). If it is of interest and of importance to recognize how we are viewed by others, particularly those about whom we care the most, then what a gift it must be to understand how the Savior sees us.And how are we to know how we are perceived by Jesus Christ? By how closely we conform to the standards that he has established for us and by the purity of the intents of our hearts. He is the one who has provided the perfect pattern and the perfect standard for all mankind not only by all that he is and did but with his compellingly clear question and invitation, “What manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am”  To do as he asks and to be what we should, assures us of his approval. But to do otherwise invites his disappointment.He, who not only knows us best but loves us most, has provided through the grandeur of his atonement all that we need to compensate for our failings, mistakes, sins, and disappointments if only we accept the Master’s invitation to come to him by way of the narrow gate and the straight path identified by his prophets (see  and obtain the blessings made available to all who seek them through his authorized agents.For those of us who love the Savior and strive to please him, President Gordon B. Hinckley in an earlier day has reminded us: “As his followers, we cannot do a mean or shoddy or ungracious thing without tarnishing his image. Nor can we do a good and gracious and generous act without burnishing more brightly the symbol of him whose name we have taken upon ourselves” ( Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1981, p. 90).In his parable of the good Samaritan, the Son of God clarified his expectations for all people who would want to be like him (see  Not only did he model and teach the attitudes and actions that he expects and requires from each of us, but he also provides the ordinances and covenants whereby we, through his duly appointed servants, might obtain all the blessings he has promised both proximate and timeless.With his magnificent compassion and power, the Savior was able to miraculously feed the multitudes of thousands when conditions required it (see  but he was also willing to take the time to provide “living water” with its guidance to eternal life to the solitary sinner of professedly low status (see  He graciously preached the gospel to large congregations, but also was inclined to take time for a seemingly insignificant Nathanael and his individual questions (see He, who under the direction of the Father, had created the world and literally could do it all himself, involves others in his ministry. At the time of his crucifixion he asked his beloved John to care for his mother, Mary, as if she were John’s own mother (see  During our time, Jesus Christ himself, together with his Father, appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and yet Moroni was given the privilege and honor to be his agent in bringing forth the Book of Mormon. This is the Savior’s church, and yet, he has called President Gordon B. Hinckley to preside over us during our day. I certify with gratitude, but also with some hopefully appropriate trepidation, that the Lord has called you and me to represent him in various important ways and duties whether they seem large or small to us.As we strive to better understand how Jesus sees us and contemplate our own attempts to live as the Redeemer would have us live, let us remember his instructing observations and their universal applications in literally all that we do: “If ye love me, keep my commandments”  and “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.