A friend of mine is having a difficult time in her life. Earlier this year she was struggling, and I didn’t know how to help her. In my prayers I asked my Heavenly Father to bless her and to help me to be her friend. One day she became angry with me, and I did not understand. I didn’t know how to react. I didn’t want to say something wrong that might ruin our friendship, especially because this was a time when I felt she needed me. But after she became angry with me, I thought it would be too hard. I was considering giving up because I was discouraged.One afternoon in seminary I came across a scripture in Mosiah that said: “And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are dependent for your lives and for all that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, O then, how ye ought to impart of the substance that ye have one to another” I knew then that she needed and still needs of the  my friendship and my testimony. I decided then that I would not give up on my friend. I talk to her every day, remember her in my prayers, and have faith that something positive will come from my efforts. I am so grateful that I prayed and received this guidance through the scriptures.As young women, we are faced with challenges, choices, and difficult situations. Many times we think we are strong enough to handle them by ourselves. We aren’t strong enough, not by ourselves at least. But if we seek with real intent and with all of our heart for help and answers, we will receive guidance and direction from the Lord. We need to allow the Lord to help us. We must trust in him and do  After we have done his will, we will find true joy and happiness. We will know that what we have done is right.If you would turn in your scriptures to Proverbs, chapter 3, verses 5 to 6, we can read together and learn that Heavenly Father wants us to trust him:“Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.“In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.” I have a testimony of the scriptures. I know that if we “trust in the Lord” and read the scriptures prayerfully, we will receive direction and guidance as to what we should do in any troubling circumstance. I know that as we follow this direction, we will feel of the Savior’s love for us. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I am a cross-country and track distance runner. Sometimes three miles on rough terrain can seem like an eternity. I have learned to endure to the end and to tolerate hard work and many physical and emotional challenges. Sometimes my mind screamed to stop and quit the race or the difficult practice, but I had to mentally and physically endure to the end. I have found that no matter how hard it was to run a race or finish a tough practice, nothing beats the satisfaction I get from knowing that I didn’t give up.In 3 Nephi, chapter 15, verse 9, Jesus told the Nephites: “Behold, I am the law, and the light. Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the end will I give eternal life.” The concept of endurance can also be applied to studying the scriptures. It has not always been easy for me to study the scriptures. They always seemed too difficult, the terrain too rough. In seminary I was encouraged to form a habit of reading ten minutes every day. I was assured that it would be worth it in the long run. I began my training. Every time I read from the Book of Mormon, I found different messages that related to the problems going on in my life. It was very exciting for me, and tonight I hope you will catch this excitement. I know it’s hard for you. We’ve all been there, but I promise you that if you open up the scriptures and read every single day, this same excitement and testimony will come. One of the greatest blessings is growing closer to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ.The scriptures also provide a way for the Holy Ghost to prompt me to choose the right every day. In 2 Nephi, chapter 32, verse 3: “Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words of Christ. Wherefore, I said unto you, feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.” As long as I endure to the end and make scripture reading a lifelong habit, I will be able to say with Paul, “I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith” I testify to you that it has been well worth the struggle. I love the Book of Mormon and the truths it holds. It has taken a few years, and it will take many more, to learn how to apply the scriptures to my daily life, but the guidance I get from scripture study is a calming influence on me and brings peace into my daily activities. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.