Some people place faith in good luck symbols, even a rabbit’s foot, but remember, it didn’t do the rabbit any good.I do not wish to be light-minded, but I believe we should ask ourselves if we truly and seriously place our faith where it belongs and rely upon the merits of Christ. Do we have an assurance that salvation comes only through him and that he will take upon himself our burdens and sorrows if we place unwavering faith in him?The scriptures state, “They are they which testify of [God]”  Eternal life is knowing God and his Holy Son (see  One can know him by searching the Book of Mormon. Every page testifies of him. The changes published in the Book of Mormon in 1981 go back beyond the first edition of 1830 to the handwritten manuscript.The Book of Mormon is a sacred, ancient American document recorded by writers as the events unfolded, starting more than two thousand years ago.The Book of Mormon is a record of families that the Lord led to the Americas for specific purposes. Three groups left the land of Jerusalem and crossed the oceans, beginning several centuries  the birth of our Savior, and arrived in the promised land, the Americas.Ancient American texts written by native Americans support this origin. For example, a translator of the  the original text of which was recorded in 1554 in the language of the Quiché of Guatemala from legends centuries old, states:“The three great Quiché nations … are descendants of the Ten Tribes of the Kingdom of Israel, whom Shalmaneser reduced to perpetual captivity and who, finding themselves on the border of Assyria, resolved to emigrate. …“These, then, were the three nations of Quichés, and they came from where the sun rises, descendants of Israel, of the same language and same customs. … They were sons of Abraham and Jacob. …“Now on the twenty-eighth of September of 1554 we sign this attestation in which we have written that which by tradition our ancestors told us, who came from the other part of the sea, from Civán-Tulán, bordering on Babylonia” ( trans. Dionisio José Chonay and Delia Goetz, Norman, Oklahoma: University of Oklahoma Press, 1953, pp. 167, 170, 194).Elder Mark E. Petersen, a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, wrote: “As the ancient Israelites suffered a dispersion which sprinkled them among all the nations, so the descendants of Laman and Lemuel [sons of Lehi] were sifted over the vast areas of the western hemisphere. ” ( Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1981, p. 31; emphasis added). migratory groups came to the Americas, but none was as important as the three mentioned in the Book of Mormon. The blood of these people flows in the veins of the Blackfoot and the Blood Indians of Alberta, Canada; in the Navajo and the Apache of the American Southwest; the Inca of western South America; the Aztec of Mexico; the Maya of Guatemala; and in other native American groups in the Western Hemisphere and the Pacific islands.These choice native people recognize the truth of the Book of Mormon, which was recorded for them by their own ancestors. President Spencer W. Kimball said:“The converted Lamanite is devout. Few ever apostatize. Some lose their way as they partake of the worldliness about them, but generally the children of Lehi of the twentieth century have inherited that grace and ability to believe like their ancestors of the long ago. We read in  ‘And thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his Spirit upon the Lamanites, because of ’” ( ed. Edward L. Kimball [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1982], p. 178; emphasis added).Every ecclesiastical authority of  and every agnostic should rejoice and praise God for having sent the priceless Book of Mormon to them or to us.  Because it is a sacred, second, undeniable witness to the world that God lives and Jesus is the very Christ, our Redeemer.The  is the Holy Bible, which testifies of the Master from the Middle East. The Lord said in  that other sheep would hear His voice. The Lord came to the Americas after His resurrection and said: “And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said: Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd”  Two such witnesses cannot be denied without placing the soul in peril.The crucial messages or purposes of the Book of Mormon are shown on its title page: “To show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord … And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that J is the C, the E G, manifesting himself unto all nations” Ancient American literature contains references to a white, bearded god who descended out of the heavens. He is called by many names; one example is Quetzalcoatl. Historians of the sixteenth century, whose texts I have, recorded pre-Hispanic beliefs concerning the white, bearded god who came to the Americas  the arrival of the Spanish conquerors. The following paragraphs contain examples of these beliefs. (born 1499) wrote: “Quetzalcoatl was esteemed and considered as a god, and was worshipped in older times. He had long hair and was bearded. The people worshipped only the Lord” ( Mexico: Editorial Porrua, S. A., 1985, pp. 195, 598). (born 1537) wrote: “A great man—a person venerable and religious—bearded, tall, long hair, dignified deportment, heroic acts, miracles—I affirm he could have been one of the blessed apostles” ( 1867, first ed., 2 vols., Mexico: Editorial Porrua, S. A., 1967, 1:9). (born 1474) wrote that Quetzalcoatl, the plumed serpent, was white, had a rounded beard, was tall, and came from the sea in the east, from whence he will return (see  Mexico: Editorial Porrua, S. A., 1982, pp. 54, 218, 223).The Tamanacos Indian tribes in Venezuela have the same legend of a white, bearded god: “[Amalivacá] had a face the color of the light fluffy clouds of the morning, and white was his long head of hair. … He said: ‘I am Amalivacá, and I come in the name of my father INA-UIKI’” (Arturo Hellmund Tello,  trans. Ted E. Brewerton, Buenos Aires, Argentina: Imprenta Lopez Peru 666, 1948, pp. 19–22).The Book of Mormon gives an accurate account of the coming of the Lord to ancient America.When we accept the ancient roots of the book and believe that Joseph Smith did have ancient records that could not be in English, we then may ask how he translated them. The only reasonable answer is the way he said: by divine revelation.What would be more perilous to us, eternally, than to say the Book of Mormon is holy scripture if it were not? Those who have questions or concerns about the Church may cling in security to this firm anchor that is immutable and tangible evidence of the truthfulness of the Church.The Book of Mormon prophet Nephi wrote: “For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to God; for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do” Elder B. H. Roberts wrote in 1909:“[The Holy Ghost] must ever be the chief source of evidence for the truth of the Book of Mormon. All other evidence is secondary to this, the primary and infallible. No arrangement of evidence, however skilfully ordered; no argument, however adroitly made, can ever take [the] place [of the Holy Ghost]. …“Secondary evidences in support of truth, like secondary causes in natural phenomena, may be of firstrate importance, and mighty factors in the achievement of God’s purposes” ( Salt Lake City, Deseret News, 1909, pp. vi–vii).The sun rises rather quietly, and at times we think that the Lord’s voice is that quiet, but his voice is audible if we will only pray, meditate, and listen as he places clear thoughts in our minds.As surely as the sun rises, God lives, as does his Almighty Son. As surely as the sun rises daily, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Because the sun rises, we see everything else.Because Jesus Christ lives, we see by his light eternal, unchanging truths and an illuminated path showing the purpose of our premortal life, the reason for our current existence, and the effect of premortal and mortal life on our life after what we call death.The Bible is a witness.The Book of Mormon is a witness.I am one of the witnesses that he  risen, and he  coming. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Since the restoration of the gospel there has been given at this pulpit and in many other places the most marvelous array of direct testimony to the divine mission of the Redeemer that possibly has ever been recorded.The law of witnesses has always been a part of the Lord’s work on earth. This law states that “in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established”  see also     This witness confirms that certain events took place and that God-given doctrine and principles are true.The first duty of a witness is to testify. A person who can testify to the truths of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is speaking of things he or she knows to be true. With the Lord and his true witnesses there is truth that reaches beyond worldly understanding. Paul understood this when he said: “Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.“Which things also we speak, not in the words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual” I was just a young boy when I sat in a stake conference in the Tooele Utah Stake, listening carefully to the visitor. He was LeGrand Richards, and he preached the gospel in his warm and spiritual way. That positive experience has stayed with me. I don’t remember what he said, but I do know how I felt as he spoke. I learned later that I felt that way because I was listening to a special witness of Jesus Christ. I knew he knew, and somehow my roots grew deeper that day as to truths of the gospel.Orson Pratt said: “A person can not be a witness to that which he merely believes. God requires mankind, or certain individuals among mankind, to be witnesses for him—witnesses of his existence—so that they can bear testimony to others” (in  16:209–10).There were many who saw the great miracles and heard the teachings of the Savior as he dwelled on earth, but not all became witnesses. There were no personal administrations of Christ to the unbelieving. Only to certain ones did the Lord open their eyes so they knew who he really was.With the calling of the Twelve by the Savior there was instituted the calling of the special witnesses of Christ.The Prophet Joseph, referring to the resurrection of the Lord, said, “God raised Him from the dead, and we (the apostles) are His witnesses [see  … and so is the Holy Ghost, whom God ha[s] given to [all those who] obey Him” ( 2:19).Every person who receives baptism into the Church and has received and felt the confirmation of the Spirit through the gift of the Holy Ghost stands as a witness “of God at all times and in all things, and in all places”  When partaking of the sacrament, that person renews that witness to take the Savior’s name, keep his commandments, and remember him. A person so moved by the Spirit not only knows these things himself, but the Spirit carries them into the hearts of others. This is the basis of the Church’s great missionary effort. “For when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men” The witness of the Holy Ghost is even more compelling than the witness of sight. As members of the Church, we become witnesses of the Savior and the truthfulness of this work not only in word but also in keeping our covenants and in how we treat others and in how we live our everyday lives.The First Presidency and the Twelve are called as “special witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world”  They are men who by divine designation, priesthood ordination, and the fire of the Holy Ghost hold the keys to the ministry on earth. The Seventy act under the direction of the First Presidency and the Twelve and are special witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world. Together, all the members become what Paul refers to as a “cloud of witnesses” The Prophet Joseph defined the work of the kingdom in our dispensation with these sacred words: “And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him [Jesus Christ], this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!“For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father” The Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, stated, “And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things are true” Said Wilford Woodruff from this Tabernacle: “Joseph Smith was what he professed to be, a prophet of God, a seer and revelator. He … lived long enough to deliver the keys of the kingdom … unto the Twelve Apostles. … The foundation that he laid we have built upon” (in  13:164).And said David O. McKay, whose life reached from some of those who began this work to some of us serving today and who were called by him: “I have an abiding testimony that the Father and the Son appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and revealed through him the Gospel of Jesus Christ. … Godhood, Brotherhood, Service—these three guiding principles in the Christ[like] life permeate all our Church activity” ( comp. Joseph E. Cardon and Samuel O. Bennion, Independence, Mo.: Zion’s Printing and Publishing Co., 1930, p. 178).And from our living Prophet-President, Gordon B. Hinckley: “I have a testimony of the living reality of the Son of God, Jesus Christ, my Savior, and my Redeemer, the Jehovah of the Old Testament, the Messiah of the New Testament. … Because of His atoning sacrifice … each of us, if we will walk in obedience to His truths, may go on to exaltation and an eternal life beyond our ability at this stage to understand or comprehend. He is my Redeemer, my Lord, my Savior, my King, my friend” (Vacaville/Santa Rosa California Regional Conference, priesthood leadership session, 20 May 1995).The witness borne by those who occupy this pulpit today is consistent with those who, by divine authority, began this work.That same witness is echoed by the members and missionaries of this church to every one of our Father’s children. It is an invitation to learn of the doctrine, to feel the Spirit, and to be healed by partaking of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.And to that witness I would add my own witness as to the truthfulness of this work. I know that we have a God in heaven who looks after us and is watching over us. I know God lives. I know he lives. I know God lives. I know this. I know this. I know that Jesus Christ is our Savior and our Redeemer. I know that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. I know that Gordon B. Hinckley is a prophet of God today and that this is the gospel of Jesus Christ. May the Lord so bless us that we may listen to the witnesses and bear witness ourselves, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.