We are all different. Each of us has been given talents as well as challenges. Some of us may have physical or mental limitations; others may be lonely or come from homes that do not teach gospel principles. Because Heavenly Father loves each of us, he has provided us with a source of comfort and strength—the scriptures.My dear friends, I am thankful for this opportunity to share with you my experience with the scriptures.While growing up, I was blessed to come from a home where scriptures were an important part of our lives. I had gone to many Church activities and heard friends and family bear testimony of the power of the scriptures. I had a desire to gain a personal testimony of the power and truthfulness of the scriptures.But that did not happen easily. Because of my learning disability, it was hard to read the words and even more difficult to understand them. I often felt embarrassed and frustrated. I didn’t like to go to Young Women because I felt inadequate. I was afraid I might be called on to read. I felt more comfortable with my family, but I continued to feel frustrated.I prayed for help and I found this scripture. Please turn with me to Moroni 7:33  and I will share with you my answer: “And Christ hath said: If ye will have faith in me ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is expedient in me.”What a wonderful promise! If I would put my faith in the Lord, he would help me. He would help me to understand the scriptures. This was the key for me. One verse at a time, one day at a time, I began to understand. Even my schoolwork improved. The Book of Mormon got me through high school. I still have my learning disability and face challenges every day, but daily scripture study reminds me to have faith in my Heavenly Father.No matter where you live or what kind of family you come from, Heavenly Father loves you and will be there to help and strengthen you whenever you need him. I know this because he has been there for me. I love my family, who understand the challenges I have. I’m grateful for leaders who have worked with me. I know the Church is true. I know the scriptures are there for each of us to learn from. I know that Christ lives. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.A friend of mine is having a difficult time in her life. Earlier this year she was struggling, and I didn’t know how to help her. In my prayers I asked my Heavenly Father to bless her and to help me to be her friend. One day she became angry with me, and I did not understand. I didn’t know how to react. I didn’t want to say something wrong that might ruin our friendship, especially because this was a time when I felt she needed me. But after she became angry with me, I thought it would be too hard. I was considering giving up because I was discouraged.One afternoon in seminary I came across a scripture in Mosiah that said: “And now, if God, who has created you, on whom you are dependent for your lives and for all that ye have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, O then, how ye ought to impart of the substance that ye have one to another” I knew then that she needed and still needs of the  my friendship and my testimony. I decided then that I would not give up on my friend. I talk to her every day, remember her in my prayers, and have faith that something positive will come from my efforts. I am so grateful that I prayed and received this guidance through the scriptures.As young women, we are faced with challenges, choices, and difficult situations. Many times we think we are strong enough to handle them by ourselves. We aren’t strong enough, not by ourselves at least. But if we seek with real intent and with all of our heart for help and answers, we will receive guidance and direction from the Lord. We need to allow the Lord to help us. We must trust in him and do  After we have done his will, we will find true joy and happiness. We will know that what we have done is right.If you would turn in your scriptures to Proverbs, chapter 3, verses 5 to 6, we can read together and learn that Heavenly Father wants us to trust him:“Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.“In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.” I have a testimony of the scriptures. I know that if we “trust in the Lord” and read the scriptures prayerfully, we will receive direction and guidance as to what we should do in any troubling circumstance. I know that as we follow this direction, we will feel of the Savior’s love for us. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.