It is a privilege for me to speak to you today. When I was asked to do this, I asked myself, “Why me?” I felt kind of scared. Then in my seminary class a girl gave a thought for opening devotional. She asked, “Do you find difficulties in opportunities or opportunities in difficulties?” I thought about this, and now I’m here!I moved from Samoa to the United States last summer. I didn’t want to leave my island and my friends. Going to a new high school made me very nervous. In spite of being new, I tried out for the girls’ basketball team. I made it! I love basketball! As you’re running down that court, everyone is counting on you to make that basket. When you make it, a feeling of happiness comes to you, and if you don’t make it—well, that is a whole different story!Anyway, I was on the team and couldn’t go to seminary because I had practice every day after school, and I had seminary after school as well. I missed seminary for the whole second quarter and forgot all about it.One day my mom asked me about it. I told her that everything was OK. But she knew what was going on. My seminary teacher had sent her a letter. She told me: “Fono, you know that what you are doing is wrong. I’m just going to advise you, but it is your decision. Remember, your decision can give you happiness, and it can also put you into a lot of misery.”I thought about this for several weeks and came to my final decision. I decided to quit basketball and go to seminary. I knew that if I chose basketball over seminary it would be pretty sad and embarrassing at seminary graduation. I didn’t want to watch others graduate when I couldn’t. Maybe that was the misery my mom was talking about. I decided that I should get my priorities straight. Even though I love basketball so much, first things first. I am hoping to make the basketball team next year. As I plan my schedule, I am making sure that I won’t have to drop seminary again in order to practice.Right now I’m back in seminary. I have a great teacher, a fun class, and I’m very proud of myself for making the right decision. This experience reminds me of a scripture found in Matthew 6:33  “But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.”In my native language, I would like to bear my testimony. [Sister Lavatai then spoke the italicized text in Samoan.] I know this gospel is true. It has helped me a lot throughout my life. I know our leaders are here to help us. I love you all. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Like each of you, I have had to use faith and be a pioneer in my life. My first real experience happened when I was in the second grade. My teacher came to our class and told us how a “special” girl would soon join us. I remember imagining the girl to see what she would be like.The first day Jenny walked in, I knew I would love her. The fact that she was handicapped urged me to learn more about her. I had never really been around children with disabilities. Although I had many anxieties, I knew I needed to be her friend. I was faced with the unknown; I accepted the challenge.I decided to go to Jenny’s house after school one day. I remember being a little nervous but felt it was the right thing to do. Her mom was very nice and helped me get to know more about Jenny.Soon I found myself always with Jenny. She became one of my very best friends. We loved to go to the store, play on her trampoline, and have sleep overs. I made up for Jenny’s physical handicaps, and she made up for my spiritual handicaps. Jenny is a wonderful example of Christlike love and forgiveness. I truly believe we helped each other overcome both of our handicaps.When we grew older, I had another test of being a pioneer. I had many friends, and a lot of them didn’t know Jenny. Although they were never rude, I always felt torn between Jenny and my other friends. It was hard and definitely a conscious effort, but I decided to help them get to know her. In time my other friends felt more comfortable with Jenny.To this day, I am still friends with Jenny. She goes to my same high school, and I see her almost every day. I truly feel proud to walk around the halls with her.I know we can all have the faith to do what is right. Like the pioneers, we can all overcome our challenges and press forward.In closing, I’d like to tell you all how humbled and grateful I am to share some of my feelings today. The fact that I have thousands of valiant sisters all over the world participating in this conference with me reassures me that what I am doing is right. It also reminds me how we are not alone in this great work. If you happen to be the only Latter-day Saint young woman in your ward or high school, just know that you have thousands of other young women standing right beside you. We can all grow together and stay strong through these perilous last days. That is my testimony and prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.