During the last few days of the Savior’s mortal ministry, He finalized His instruction to His Apostles. They had been with Him during His three-year ministry, but now He completed His teaching that had come line upon line and precept upon precept as rapidly as they had been able to receive it.Knowing the end of His ministry was near, He told them of His impending departure: “Yet a little while I am with you. … Whither I go, ye cannot come” Fear, frustration, and concern must have gripped these humble disciples. Jesus had been their security, their help, their light. What could they do without His direction, His instruction, His example, His comfort?In love and compassion, the Master assured them: “I will not leave you comfortless: … I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. … He shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you” To His apostolic friends and for the benefit of all believers, Jesus added a significant benediction: “Peace I leave with you,  peace I give unto you:  give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid”  emphasis added).The scriptures testify that the promise was fulfilled in the lives of His servants in the meridian of time. We testify that the fulfillment continues in this dispensation of the fulness of times.It should be noted that Jesus promised  peace— the peace that the world gives. The world cries out for freedom from war, from violence, from oppression, from injustice, from contention, from disease and distress. That the Savior did not expect such worldly peace is clear from His concluding remark as He finished His special teaching to His Apostles: “These things I have spoken unto you, that  ye might have peace. In the world ye  have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world”  emphasis added).In mortality tribulation would continue. But in the midst of that tribulation His followers would have peace in Him. In other words, even if all the world is crumbling around us, the promised Comforter will provide His peace as a result of true discipleship. Ultimate total peace will come, of course, because He overcame the world. But we can have His peace with us irrespective of the troubles of the world.  peace is that peace, that serenity, that comfort spoken to our hearts and minds by the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, as we strive to follow  and keep  commandments.“Learn of me, and listen to my words; walk in the meekness of my Spirit, and you shall have peace in me” “He who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come” Just as Helaman discovered in the midst of battle that “he did speak peace to our souls”  and Oliver Cowdery had peace spoken to his mind when he cried unto the Lord in his heart that he might know concerning the truth of the Book of Mormon (see  all sincere seekers can have that same peace spoken to them. That peace comes from the assurances spoken by a still, small voice. The Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit who generally communicates not through physical senses but by touching the heart and mind—in other words, He speaks through thoughts, impressions, and feelings and does so softly.As Elder Packer has stated: “The Spirit does not get our attention by shouting or shaking us with a heavy hand. Rather it whispers. It caresses so gently that if we are preoccupied we may not feel it at all” (“The Candle of the Lord,”  Jan. 1983, 53).Accordingly, many do not hear the voice. In fact, many do not  to hear the voice. Many men desire to be, and are determined to be self-sufficient, rejecting and scoffing at anything which would potentially call into question their own power or ability. “The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned” But although the Spirit is gentle, it speaks with great power. To receive the Spirit, a type of surrender is necessary. A few years before the first advent of Jesus Christ, the Nephite prophets “Nephi and Lehi were encircled about as if by fire”  while confined in prison. Their would-be slayers heard “a voice as if it were above the cloud of darkness”  which had gripped the crowd of unbelievers, calling them to repentance as the earth shook. “When they heard this voice, and beheld that it was not a voice of thunder, neither was it a voice of a great tumultuous noise, but behold, it was a still voice of perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper, and it did —And notwithstanding the mildness of the voice, behold the earth shook exceedingly”  emphasis added) they were motivated to repent and have faith in Christ. “And behold, the Holy Spirit of God did come down from heaven, and did enter into their hearts, and they were filled as if with fire, and they could speak forth marvelous words. And it came to pass that there came a voice unto them, yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying: Peace, peace be unto you” They surrendered—surrendered to a power unseen, but capable of penetrating any willing heart.Paul described the fruit of the Spirit; that is, what the Spirit produces, “The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness,” and he observed, “Against such there is no law”  In other words, the Spirit can penetrate anything. No law can be passed which will preclude the Spirit from doing His work with an obedient follower of Christ. The scriptures teach us that the Spirit:Just as Jesus’ anxious Apostles were given peace by “another Comforter”  so today can all men and women receive the same marvelous blessing each day of their lives: the teenager challenged by peer pressure, the person torn by seemingly overwhelming passions or emotions, the person encircled about by loneliness and despair, the hungry, the oppressed, the forgotten, the frightened, the abused, the abuser, the liar, the thief—all who will surrender, follow the Master, and do His works are entitled to the same peace.Jesus’ invitation is extended to all: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest”  I so testify, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I was raised on a small farm in northern Utah. We were blessed to have enough land, not enough to make a living, but enough to make work for a young boy. My parents were good, hardworking, industrious people. In order to make ends meet, my father took outside employment. Each morning before he left for work, he would make a list of chores he wanted me to accomplish before he came home that evening.I remember on one occasion one of the items on the list was to take a small broken part from our hay rake to the blacksmith shop to have it repaired. I was uncomfortable about going. My father hadn’t left any money, and I wondered what I should do. I put off going as long as I could. When all my other chores were finished, I knew I couldn’t avoid it any longer. Father expected the broken part to be repaired when he came home, and it was my responsibility to see that it was done.I can still remember walking the mile or so to the blacksmith shop. I even remember how uncomfortable I was as I watched him weld the part. As he finished, I nervously told him that I had no money, but that my father would pay him later. I’m sure he sensed my anxiety. He patted me on the shoulder and said, “Son, don’t worry,  I remember running all the way home, relieved that the part had been repaired and grateful that my father was known as a man whose word was as good as his bond.As a boy I didn’t fully understand what that meant, but I knew it was good and something to be desired. It was years later that I recognized that a person whose word is as good as his bond is a person of honesty and integrity, a person to be trusted. In today’s world, there are some who think nothing of breaking their word, their promises, their covenants with man and with God. What a blessing it is to deal with those whom we can trust.A powerful example of this can be found in the Book of Mormon. You will remember the assignment given to Nephi and his brothers by their father, Lehi, to go to Jerusalem to obtain the plates of brass from Laban. After an unsuccessful attempt, the brothers desired to return to their father in the wilderness. Nephi recognized that they had a task to perform, an assignment to fulfill. He stated, “We will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.” They tried again, and again they failed. Nephi then “crept into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.” It was there that he found Laban drunken with wine and obeyed the voice of the Spirit, which said to him: “Slay him, for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands. … It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief.” Then, putting on the clothes of Laban, he went to the treasury and obtained the plates. Nephi had accomplished that which he had been sent to do.But we must not overlook the powerful example of Laban’s servant, Zoram. Nephi commanded Zoram to follow him as he left the treasury, and it was only when he called to his brothers that Zoram realized that it was Nephi and not Laban whom he had followed. The scriptures tell us that Zoram “began to tremble, and was about to flee,” when Nephi seized him and told him he need not fear, that he should be a free man if he would go down into the wilderness with them. Zoram promised that he would; he gave his word. And Nephi said that “when Zoram had made an oath unto us, our fears did cease concerning him.” He was a man to be trusted; his oath was binding; his word was as good as his bond.Honesty and integrity are not old-fashioned principles. They are just as viable in today’s world. We have been taught in the Church that:When we say we will do something, we do it.When we make a commitment, we honor it.When we are given a calling, we fulfill it.When we borrow something, we return it.When we have a financial obligation, we pay it.When we enter into an agreement, we keep it.President N. Eldon Tanner related the following experience:“A young man came to me not long ago and said, ‘I made an agreement with a man that requires me to make certain payments each year. I am in arrears, and I can’t make those payments, for if I do, it is going to cause me to lose my home. What shall I do?’“I looked at him and said, ‘Keep your agreement.’“‘Even if it costs me my home?’“I said, ‘I am not talking about your home. I am talking about your agreement; and I think your wife would rather have a husband who would keep his word, meet his obligations, keep his pledges or his covenants, and have to rent a home than to have a home with a husband who will not keep his covenants and his pledges.’”We are all familiar with the statement “Honesty is the best policy.” For members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, honesty is the  policy. We must be honest with our fellowmen. We must be honest with our God. We are honest with God when we honor the covenants we make with Him.We are a covenant-making people. We make covenants at the waters of baptism. We renew those covenants each week as we worthily partake of the sacrament. We take upon ourselves the name of Christ; we promise to always remember Him and to keep His commandments. And in return He promises us that His Spirit will always be with us. We make covenants as we enter into the temple, and in return we receive the promised blessings of eternal life—if we keep those sacred covenants.Covenants with God are not to be taken lightly. In the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord tells us, “I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in my covenant, even unto death, that you may be found worthy.”The account of the Anti-Nephi-Lehies in the Book of Mormon is a touching example of this. Ammon and his brethren spent 14 years preaching to the Lamanite people. Thousands were brought to the knowledge of the truth, and those who were converted unto the Lord “never did fall away.” “For they were perfectly honest and upright in all things; and they were firm in the faith of Christ, even unto the end.” They were so grateful for the mercy of God that they covenanted with Him “that rather than shed the blood of their brethren they would give up their own lives.” You will remember that they buried their weapons of war in the ground. They were so true to that covenant that even when the armies of the Lamanites came upon them, “they went out to meet them, and prostrated themselves before them to the earth, and began to call on the name of the Lord.” They offered no resistance. Many were slain. These people were willing to die rather than break the covenant that they had made with the Lord.In our dealings with both God and our fellowmen, let us be examples of honesty and integrity. Elder Joseph B. Wirthlin tells us: “The rewards of integrity are immeasurable. One is the indescribable inner peace that comes from knowing we are doing what is right; another is an absence of the guilt and anxiety that accompany sin. Another reward of integrity is the confidence it can give us in approaching God. … The consummate reward of integrity is the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost. … Let us live true to the trust the Lord has placed in us.”It is my prayer that we may honor the commitments and covenants that we make with God and with our fellowmen, that it can be said of each of us, “Our word is as good as our bond.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.