All of our lives have been blessed through the great service of Sister Jack and her counselors. I’m sure I represent each of you in expressing our thanks.Faithful disciples following the Savior heard gospel principles taught by thought-provoking short stories known as parables. After hearing many parables, “the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables?”  The Savior responded: “Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand” A lawyer chose to challenge the Savior on a point of doctrine. Attempting to entrap Jesus, he asked, “Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”  Jesus responded with a question of his own: “What is written in the law? how readest thou?”  The response of the lawyer, as recited from the law, was perfect: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself”  Jesus acknowledged the answer and then replied: “This do, and thou shalt live” Having failed to confound the Master, the lawyer was embarrassed. He sought justification by making a further inquiry, “And who is my neighbour?”  We should be very grateful for the lawyer’s second question. From it came one of the most insightful of the Savior’s parables.You remember the setting: “A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, … leaving him half dead”  Since our Primary days, we have heard about this certain man. We wonder at the failure of the priest and the Levite to render aid, and we say: “Surely, I would have helped. Surely, I would have stopped. Surely, I would not have looked the other way.”The parable continues: “But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him”  The prophet Moroni was granted a vision of our day. The Book of Mormon record states: “For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your fine apparel … more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted. …“Why do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no life, and yet suffer the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and the sick and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them not?” Moroni was troubled by what he saw. Are we troubled enough to set aside our love of substance and hear the cry of the hungry, the needy, the naked, and the sick? Can we say, “I would have responded if I had seen a person in need, as did the Samaritan”?The parable continues: “And [he] went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him”  Upon completing the parable, the Savior asked the lawyer, “Which now of these three … was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?” He quickly identified the one who had shown mercy—the kind and caring traveler from Samaria. Jesus admonished the lawyer to   emphasis added).May I tell you about several of the many Samaritans who are “pouring in oil and wine” to ease the plight of the needy around the world?In March of 1996, a volunteer team consisting of a radiologist, two technicians, and a biomedical engineer installed a mammography machine and a film processor in a hospital in Poland. The equipment was purchased by the Church with funds generously contributed for humanitarian assistance. Physicians and technologists came from area hospitals to be trained in the use of the machines. Since observing the benefits of the machines, the Polish government has purchased 45 more. Many lives will be saved and much suffering avoided by early detection of abnormalities.Cambodia has suffered nearly 30 years of war. Thousands perished, and survivors have experienced misery and deprivation. In 1994, following an emergency food donation by the Church, an offer was extended to assist Cambodians in becoming more self-reliant in basic food production and processing. Several skilled volunteer couples have established a small cannery and a poultry feed mill. Technical courses have been developed and taught to many. A new era in agriculture is being born through the unselfish efforts of modern good Samaritans.Many of us regularly  when we dispatch our surplus clothing to Deseret Industries. In 1996, over 8.5 million pounds of clothing were sorted and distributed to those in great need. Much clothing has been sent to needy populations in Russia—coats to provide warmth in freezing weather; gloves to prevent frostbite; dresses, shirts, and sweaters. A Russian official wrote, “We do thank God and each one of you for the great help you have been to our people.”The prophet Alma, in describing his day, said, “They did impart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted”  Even when they prospered, “they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, … they were liberal to all, … whether out of the church or in the church, having no respect to persons as to those who stood in need” Good Samaritanism is contagious. Providing in the Lord’s way humbles the rich, it exalts the poor, and sanctifies both (see  The giver helps those in need by sharing what he has received. The receiver accepts the offering with gratitude. As the receiver rises to his full potential, he then is able to reach out to help others.Good Samaritanism starts in the home as parents teach children by example and precept. Acts of assistance, kindness, and concern among family members reinforce the desire to Tucked away in the Uintah Basin of eastern Utah are several small communities. Jedadiah lives in one of these friendly towns. He is a handsome, blond 11-year-old. Jeddy loves academics and is extremely interested in sports. He is excited to soon be eligible to receive the Aaronic Priesthood. Jeddy’s body cannot do the many things that he would like it to do. The cystic fibrosis that exists in his lungs makes breathing rather difficult.Amanda, Jeddy’s big sister, is a lovely 16-year-old who displays her love for him in a host of ways. She is a source of comfort when times are difficult. She is his link to school, seeing that assignments are brought home daily. A neighbor said, “Amanda is a real heroine in her family.” She understands the significance of Jeddy only travels to Salt Lake City to go to the hospital. For a special reason he is looking forward to October general conference. It is a family tradition that Grandfather takes his grandsons to Salt Lake for general conference following their 12th birthday. Jeddy can hardly wait; neither can Grandpa.Recently, a sweet 93-year-old sister joined her eternal companion on the other side of the veil. They were blessed with four devoted children. This couple shared their musical talents on thousands of occasions. Many saddened spirits were uplifted in times of mourning as these good Samaritans blended their voices in strains of hope and encouragement. Many children will feel the love of the Savior as they sing Primary songs composed by this sweet sister. As her health declined, loving children spent much time and energy and emotion in meeting her needs. A valiant daughter devoted herself to her mother’s care. They will continue toIn a mountain valley, a small community is the home of a monastery with a declining number of aging monks. A stake Relief Society president, with many other compassionate service responsibilities, regularly checks on the well-being of the monks. She is the first to deliver goodies on days when they are permissible. She cares about their welfare just as she does about the members of her stake.Bishops regularly call upon volunteer labor to grow and process commodities to fill bishops’ storehouses. Last year, nearly 270,000 days of labor were volunteered in keeping shelves filled and available for use by bishops. Many of us have fond remembrances of our time volunteering on welfare projects. I can still hear a farm manager’s cries of anguish as he observed the damage done to several acres of sugar beets because we had mistaken newly emerging beet plants for weeds. The blessings we received for our service turned out to be a “Scotch blessing.”President Monson said, “We have a responsibility to extend help as well as hope to the hungry, to the homeless, and to the downtrodden both at home and abroad” ( May 1990, 4).Picture a small, one-room apartment which is home for a family of six. The room is dirty and cluttered. The family has not been to church in years.As the ward welfare committee discussed the family’s needs, there was a feeling of discouragement, for bishops, over the years, had helped the family often. In the discussion, a new idea began to dawn. Perhaps, if the committee called upon the resources of the Lord’s storehouse—the talents and skills of ward members—even this difficult situation could be assisted.The committee first focused on future possibilities as well as immediate needs. As possibilities turned to reality, hope and optimism replaced gloom and depression. Filled with hope, the family committed to help improve their own situation. The committee also went to work. A hairstylist gave the family haircuts. A dentist volunteered, and for the first time in years, a mother was not embarrassed to smile. A new pair of glasses allowed this mother to once again read to her children. A financial specialist worked with the family in budgeting their funds. A three-year-old received much needed physical therapy.Slowly the family began to believe their life could be different. The apartment, once dirty and disorganized, began to show signs of order and cleanliness. Curtains went up on the windows. Just a year later invitations were extended by this family to an open house for their three-bedroom home.A wounded family was found by the side of the road, a family suffering just as much as the traveler from Jerusalem in Jesus’ day. The family’s cries were heard, and their wounds were bound. The modern good Samaritans followed the divine injunction to  Spiritual lives were also rescued. Today, this family is active in the Church and preparing to receive the blessings of the temple.Bishops use consecrated fast offerings to supply needs beyond those which can be provided by the storehouse. President Hinckley suggested we think “of what would happen if the principles of the fast day and the fast offering were observed throughout the world. The hungry would be fed, the naked clothed, the homeless sheltered. … The giver would not suffer, but would be blessed by his small abstinence. A new measure of concern and unselfishness would grow in the hearts of people everywhere” ( May 1991, 52–53).To help relieve suffering is to cultivate a Christlike character. We are charged, as were those who listened at the feet of the Savior 2,000 years ago, to  The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that it is our responsibility “to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to provide for the widow, to dry up the tear of the orphan, to comfort the afflicted, whether in this church or in any other, or in no church at all, wherever he finds them” ( 15 Mar. 1842, 732).May we be generous with our time and liberal in our contributions for the care of those who suffer. May we commit to the principles of Good Samaritanism and be ever mindful of the need to  I pray in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.I grew up just a stone’s throw from the Alberta Temple in Cardston, Canada. In this small Mormon community at the foot of the Canadian Rockies, a temple stood as a powerful symbol of the strength and grandeur of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I made my most meaningful covenants within the walls of that temple.Those walls are very significant to me. My grandfather John F. Anderson, a skilled stonemason from Aberdeen, Scotland, was called to dress the white granite stone for this holy temple. In 1915 at the laying of the cornerstone, he had the honor of acting as the chief mason under the supervision of Elder David O. McKay. In 1923, before the temple was dedicated, my grandfather laid the very last stone. Then, in his journal he recorded, “It was not the capstone, but a small stone at the front gate entrance.”Today, I lay my small stone at the front gate entrance of Relief Society.In the book of Omni, itself a small stone in the middle of the Book of Mormon, Amaleki writes: “I would that ye should come unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and partake of his salvation, and the power of his redemption. Yea, … and offer your whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue in fasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord liveth ye will be saved” The Prophet Joseph Smith described offering “your whole soul” as serving God with all your “heart, might, mind and strength”  It is to put on the altar of God your time, talents, gifts and blessings, your willingness to serve, to do all that He asks. My grandfather offered to the Lord the stone he had placed so carefully. Today, I offer my years of service in the general Relief Society.In 1991, at the invitation of President Hinckley, I returned to my childhood home in Canada to attend the rededication of the Alberta Temple. I will always remember the power that filled the room as the session concluded and we stood to sing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burning!” My heart was touched by the familiar words: “We’ll sing and we’ll shout with the armies of heaven, hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb.” (“The Spirit of God,”  no. 2.) Hosanna is a righteous shout for joy, and this was a joyous occasion!To our chorus the choir added the great “Hosannah Anthem.” The words were meaningful then as I reflected on my grandfather’s work to build the walls of that noble temple: “The house of the Lord is completed. May our offering by Him be accepted” (in  [1980], 69–76). They strike me even more dramatically today as I complete my “house” for the Lord.I find many parallels with building a temple and fulfilling a calling. We begin with bare ground, and we start to work. We survey the situation, pray for inspiration, thoughtfully formulate plans, send them for review, adjust, and plan again. We firm up a foundation and then add walls, a roof, and even gardens. Each administration builds on the solid bedrock of the past.For the past seven years this Relief Society presidency has been building. We have added a Churchwide literacy effort to our education focus; we have emphasized the principle of watching over and caring for our sisters through visiting teaching; we have continued to place home and family at the center of our attention and honored the divine nature of women as they nurture, sacrifice, teach, and inspire. Wonderful things have happened because of the women of this Church who have tended children and tended each other, taught self-reliance, and taught of the Savior.How I have loved working so closely with the wonderful women of this Church as they have offered their souls to the Lord. To their stones, I add my own. I pray that it may be accepted.One of my prized memories of these past few years was the sesquicentennial in 1992, when we celebrated the founding of Relief Society, one of the oldest, largest, and, in my eyes, the most successful women’s organizations in the world. It is still thrilling for me to remember the simultaneous broadcast to every continent of the world, linking sisters for the first time from Taiwan, Zimbabwe, Germany, Mexico, Korea, Australia, and America.Emma Smith, the first president of this organization, said to the sisters, “We are going to do something extraordinary” (Minutes of the Female Relief Society, 17 Mar. 1842, LDS Church Archives). Our celebration was indeed “something extraordinary.” What began in 1842 with 20 women in Nauvoo, Illinois, now involves nearly four million women on every continent and in almost every country in the world. But what is significant is that it began with one woman, Margaret Cook, who offered to sew shirts for the men working on the Nauvoo Temple. She needed cloth and could not afford to buy it. Sarah Kimball offered the cloth, and within weeks the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith under the inspiration of the Lord. It began with a small offering—at the front gate—and it has grown to a major force for good around the world, one stone at a time.One of the things I recognize is that if we are obedient, faithful, and earnest, the Lord helps us prepare our offerings. We learn this from Nephi, who was told, “Thou shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I shall show thee, that I may carry thy people across these waters”  Nephi was not from a seaside community; he had never built a boat. But his response was so full of faith and accountability: “Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship after the manner which thou hast shown unto me?”  Without hesitation or question, Nephi began to prepare an offering to the Lord in the shape of a ship.When I was called to serve in this assignment, I, like Nephi, went to the Lord for help. My tools came in the form of two strong and capable counselors, Chieko Okazaki and Aileen Clyde. As a presidency we have been fortunate to have a board of 12 noble women, whose contribution has reflected dedication and skill, and an office staff, whose service has been generously and patiently given. Together, we have done “this work with holiness of heart”  And we have been blessed with the prayers and goodness of Relief Society women in all parts of the world, good women who take seriously the Lord’s charge, “Be not weary in well-doing” I want to express my gratitude to the many priesthood leaders who have counseled and directed us. They have needed our confidence and support just as we have needed their understanding and priesthood power. The Lord has called men of valor, wisdom, and heart to lead this Church. I have seen God inspire our leaders; I have seen them act decisively, compassionately, and carefully. I trust them; they have trusted us.I know I speak for the women of this Church when I say to President Hinckley, President Monson, President Faust, and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, we stand by you, we support you, we know you are latter-day prophets with the keys to the kingdom of God.I also pay tribute to my husband, Joe, who has blessed me with his steadiness, his sense of humor and good judgment, and his righteous hands. My four sons have followed his lead as loyal supporters. I took it as the ultimate compliment when one of them said, “We’ve been training Mom to be a Relief Society president for a long time, and she finally got it right!”Our offerings embrace both the work we do and the heart with which we do it. The Lord calls this “a broken heart and a contrite spirit”  This union constitutes the soul. Amaleki spoke of offering “your whole souls” to Jesus Christ  Brothers and sisters, the time is past when we can merely believe in this gospel; we must be passionate in our belief and in our commitment to Jesus Christ and His plan. We must know, unequivocally, that He is with us, that He will guide and direct us. In His name we shape our offering. For the past few years I have represented all the women of this Church, a far-reaching responsibility. I believe that the Lord will measure my efforts by my heart and my spirit, as He does yours.Today, Relief Society represents the hope expressed by President Emmeline B. Wells, who served in the early years of this century. Her guidance had helped Relief Society hold fast to its cherished traditions while going forward with faith in God and hope in the future. Fifty years later President Belle Spafford said, “Relief Society is only on the threshold of its divine mission” (in  [1966], 140). Today, we are ready to step over that threshold into a new dimension of spirituality and light. I look forward with a perfect brightness of hope to the offerings of Relief Society sisters in the new century that is before us. Our joy in the gospel of Jesus Christ and our place in His plan will draw people to us and change lives. We will lift and inspire a world so desperately in need of goodness. This new presidency will build an even greater sense of purpose and contribution. I commit my full support to President Smoot and her counselors as they add new stones to the building of the kingdom of God. Surely the strength of today will serve as a foundation upon which the women of tomorrow will build.This Church has been built and will continue to grow through the steady efforts of the members who quietly do their part, who are struggling with daily challenges, who are humble, patient, and long-suffering. These are the hearts that fill with joy when they sing in dedication of their own offerings, “The Lord is extending the Saints’ understanding” ( no. 2).My heart is full of gratitude and great joy. Rejoice with me in bearing testimony of the Savior: “Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.