As our Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, met with His disciples on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, He taught them a pattern for prayer. This prayer, which is known to us as the Lord’s Prayer, deserves our thoughtful consideration (see  The Lord counseled, or perhaps even commanded, “After this manner therefore pray ye”  Now, focus your minds, and your hearts, on how He began this noble prayer: “Our Father [who] art in heaven”  What a stunning moment it was! What a revelation! “Our Father,” He declared, “Our Father.”Oh, He could have chosen so many ways to begin the prayer: “O mighty Creator of heaven and earth, O mighty God who is omnipresent, omniscient, or omnipotent.” These grand titles contain grand and noble truths. But He taught in one single word, “Father,” so very much that we need to know, that indeed we long to know. God is our Father. And we are His children.Prophets of God proclaim that “all human beings—male and female—are created in the image of God. Each is a beloved spirit son or daughter of heavenly parents, and, as such, each has a divine nature and destiny” (“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,”  Nov. 1995, 102).As a child enjoys a satisfying and secure relationship with his or her own father, he or she can relate naturally to his or her Heavenly Father. The child senses that he is a child of God and that God is his Father. That feels normal and that feels right, because it is right. We so proclaim that “in the premortal realm, spirit sons and daughters knew and worshiped God as their Eternal Father” ( Nov. 1995, 102). They knew Him then. They will naturally and intuitively know Him now. What a tragedy for an innocent child to be abused such that he or she would find it difficult to reach out to his or her Heavenly Father.Some years ago, some close friends of ours loaned us their cabin in Island Park, Idaho. When we arrived at the cabin, we found that the key that we had been given to unlock the front door didn’t work. We tried to undo windows and pry open screens, all to no avail.Suddenly our son Steven, who was about seven years old at the time, shouted to us that he had just successfully opened the front door. Steven, with a big grin on his face, was standing triumphantly inside the front doorway. I was amazed. I asked him how he did that.He responded with wonderful, childlike spontaneity: “I bowed my head and prayed. When I looked up, my eyes spotted this big rock by the front steps, and I thought, ‘There is a key under that rock.’ And sure enough there it was.” The prayer of a child had been heard. I thank the Lord for his mother who had taught him to find keys in moments of crisis.My beloved brothers and sisters and friends, I bear earnest and solemn witness to you that the Lord does communicate with us as individuals. Never, never fall victim to the heinous thought that He does not care for you, that He does not know you. That is a satanic lie, one designed to destroy you.Just two weeks ago, I was sending e-mail, or electronic messages, through our personal computer in our apartment in Tokyo, Japan, to a nephew in China; a son in Pocatello, Idaho; and another nephew in Longview, Washington. In the midst of formulating these e-mail messages, a miracle occurred. Our son-in-law in Salt Lake City sent us an instant, on-screen e-mail message. He simply asked, “Are you there?” I immediately responded, “I am here.” And we “spoke” with one another via the miracle of e-mail.Of course, God can and does communicate with us. According to the Doctrine and Covenants, section 88, verses 6 to 13, there is a light which “proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space.” There is a light “in all things.” It gives “life to all things.” It is the “law by which all things are governed, even the power of God.” This light “giveth you light [and] is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings.”  Our Father has a superb communication system through which He transmits messages and feelings. “Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost … which shall dwell in your heart. … This is the spirit of revelation”  He knows and communicates with His sheep and they hear His voice (see The Lord Jesus Christ teaches us to pray and covenants that answers will be forthcoming. “Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name,” He declares  “Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed” Note His insistence that “ye must always pray … in my name.” There is “no other name given … whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent” We read this powerful account in the book of Moses, chapter 1. In verse 3, the Lord declares to Moses: “Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name; for I am without beginning of days or end of years; and is not this endless?”  Moses must have been overwhelmed with that announcement. Imagine what he must have felt with the next declaration as recorded in verse 4 of the same chapter: He says, “And, behold, thou art my son.” This is the Lord God Almighty, and “Endless is [His] name,” He declared. And then He says to Moses, “Thou art my son.”  What a moment. If the Lord were to appear to you, He would say the same thing.Following the Lord’s appearance to Moses, Satan appeared to him. He commanded Moses, saying, “Son of man, worship me”  Moses looked at Satan, and with confidence in the Lord’s recent revelation, he rebuked him, saying to Satan: “Who art thou? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten; and where is thy glory, that I should worship thee?” Moses had learned something about himself. He was a son of God. Oh, how important it is that our children be reminded of this truth. And Moses commanded Satan to leave, but to no avail. And Satan was angry. Moses again commanded him to depart, and Satan cried and ranted upon the earth, again refusing to leave (see Moses then realized that he had a major challenge on his hands. This was no ordinary person. He was fearsome, angry, and powerful. Moses wanted no part of this and commanded boldly, “Depart from me, Satan, for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of glory. And now Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook” Here was a power that was dark and bitter. How could Moses withstand such? In this great moment of crisis, “Moses received strength, and called upon God, saying: In the name of the Only Begotten, depart hence, Satan”  He now appealed to a power beyond his own. He tapped into a source of strength and authority through the Lord Jesus Christ, a power which Satan could not defy. “And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth; and he departed hence, even from the presence of Moses, that he beheld him not” Years ago, one of our colleagues shared this tender experience with us. His young daughter, Kim, had just learned to count. In fact, she could count all the way from one to ten. They were so excited they called Grandma. “Hi, Grandma. Do you want to hear me count?” Then she began to count, “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.” Perhaps the Savior smiled and was pleased that Kim could count from one to ten.When we use these sacred words, “in the name of Jesus Christ,” they are much more than a way to get out of a prayer or out of a testimony or out of a talk. We are on holy ground, brothers and sisters. We are using a name most sublime, most holy, and most wonderful—the very name of the Son of God. We are now able to come unto the Father through His Beloved Son. What power and reassurance and peace come when we really pray in His name. This conclusion to the prayer may, in many ways, be the most important part of the prayer. We can appeal to the Father through His victorious Son with confidence that our prayers will be heard. We can ask and receive, we can seek and find and subsequently find the open door.I testify to you in that holy name, even the name of Jesus Christ, that God is our Father. We are His children. Jesus Christ is His Only Begotten Son in the flesh. He is our beloved Savior and Redeemer. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.All of our lives have been blessed through the great service of Sister Jack and her counselors. I’m sure I represent each of you in expressing our thanks.Faithful disciples following the Savior heard gospel principles taught by thought-provoking short stories known as parables. After hearing many parables, “the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables?”  The Savior responded: “Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand” A lawyer chose to challenge the Savior on a point of doctrine. Attempting to entrap Jesus, he asked, “Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?”  Jesus responded with a question of his own: “What is written in the law? how readest thou?”  The response of the lawyer, as recited from the law, was perfect: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself”  Jesus acknowledged the answer and then replied: “This do, and thou shalt live” Having failed to confound the Master, the lawyer was embarrassed. He sought justification by making a further inquiry, “And who is my neighbour?”  We should be very grateful for the lawyer’s second question. From it came one of the most insightful of the Savior’s parables.You remember the setting: “A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, … leaving him half dead”  Since our Primary days, we have heard about this certain man. We wonder at the failure of the priest and the Levite to render aid, and we say: “Surely, I would have helped. Surely, I would have stopped. Surely, I would not have looked the other way.”The parable continues: “But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him”  The prophet Moroni was granted a vision of our day. The Book of Mormon record states: “For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your fine apparel … more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted. …“Why do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no life, and yet suffer the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and the sick and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them not?” Moroni was troubled by what he saw. Are we troubled enough to set aside our love of substance and hear the cry of the hungry, the needy, the naked, and the sick? Can we say, “I would have responded if I had seen a person in need, as did the Samaritan”?The parable continues: “And [he] went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him”  Upon completing the parable, the Savior asked the lawyer, “Which now of these three … was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?” He quickly identified the one who had shown mercy—the kind and caring traveler from Samaria. Jesus admonished the lawyer to   emphasis added).May I tell you about several of the many Samaritans who are “pouring in oil and wine” to ease the plight of the needy around the world?In March of 1996, a volunteer team consisting of a radiologist, two technicians, and a biomedical engineer installed a mammography machine and a film processor in a hospital in Poland. The equipment was purchased by the Church with funds generously contributed for humanitarian assistance. Physicians and technologists came from area hospitals to be trained in the use of the machines. Since observing the benefits of the machines, the Polish government has purchased 45 more. Many lives will be saved and much suffering avoided by early detection of abnormalities.Cambodia has suffered nearly 30 years of war. Thousands perished, and survivors have experienced misery and deprivation. In 1994, following an emergency food donation by the Church, an offer was extended to assist Cambodians in becoming more self-reliant in basic food production and processing. Several skilled volunteer couples have established a small cannery and a poultry feed mill. Technical courses have been developed and taught to many. A new era in agriculture is being born through the unselfish efforts of modern good Samaritans.Many of us regularly  when we dispatch our surplus clothing to Deseret Industries. In 1996, over 8.5 million pounds of clothing were sorted and distributed to those in great need. Much clothing has been sent to needy populations in Russia—coats to provide warmth in freezing weather; gloves to prevent frostbite; dresses, shirts, and sweaters. A Russian official wrote, “We do thank God and each one of you for the great help you have been to our people.”The prophet Alma, in describing his day, said, “They did impart of their substance, every man according to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted”  Even when they prospered, “they did not send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were athirst, … they were liberal to all, … whether out of the church or in the church, having no respect to persons as to those who stood in need” Good Samaritanism is contagious. Providing in the Lord’s way humbles the rich, it exalts the poor, and sanctifies both (see  The giver helps those in need by sharing what he has received. The receiver accepts the offering with gratitude. As the receiver rises to his full potential, he then is able to reach out to help others.Good Samaritanism starts in the home as parents teach children by example and precept. Acts of assistance, kindness, and concern among family members reinforce the desire to Tucked away in the Uintah Basin of eastern Utah are several small communities. Jedadiah lives in one of these friendly towns. He is a handsome, blond 11-year-old. Jeddy loves academics and is extremely interested in sports. He is excited to soon be eligible to receive the Aaronic Priesthood. Jeddy’s body cannot do the many things that he would like it to do. The cystic fibrosis that exists in his lungs makes breathing rather difficult.Amanda, Jeddy’s big sister, is a lovely 16-year-old who displays her love for him in a host of ways. She is a source of comfort when times are difficult. She is his link to school, seeing that assignments are brought home daily. A neighbor said, “Amanda is a real heroine in her family.” She understands the significance of Jeddy only travels to Salt Lake City to go to the hospital. For a special reason he is looking forward to October general conference. It is a family tradition that Grandfather takes his grandsons to Salt Lake for general conference following their 12th birthday. Jeddy can hardly wait; neither can Grandpa.Recently, a sweet 93-year-old sister joined her eternal companion on the other side of the veil. They were blessed with four devoted children. This couple shared their musical talents on thousands of occasions. Many saddened spirits were uplifted in times of mourning as these good Samaritans blended their voices in strains of hope and encouragement. Many children will feel the love of the Savior as they sing Primary songs composed by this sweet sister. As her health declined, loving children spent much time and energy and emotion in meeting her needs. A valiant daughter devoted herself to her mother’s care. They will continue toIn a mountain valley, a small community is the home of a monastery with a declining number of aging monks. A stake Relief Society president, with many other compassionate service responsibilities, regularly checks on the well-being of the monks. She is the first to deliver goodies on days when they are permissible. She cares about their welfare just as she does about the members of her stake.Bishops regularly call upon volunteer labor to grow and process commodities to fill bishops’ storehouses. Last year, nearly 270,000 days of labor were volunteered in keeping shelves filled and available for use by bishops. Many of us have fond remembrances of our time volunteering on welfare projects. I can still hear a farm manager’s cries of anguish as he observed the damage done to several acres of sugar beets because we had mistaken newly emerging beet plants for weeds. The blessings we received for our service turned out to be a “Scotch blessing.”President Monson said, “We have a responsibility to extend help as well as hope to the hungry, to the homeless, and to the downtrodden both at home and abroad” ( May 1990, 4).Picture a small, one-room apartment which is home for a family of six. The room is dirty and cluttered. The family has not been to church in years.As the ward welfare committee discussed the family’s needs, there was a feeling of discouragement, for bishops, over the years, had helped the family often. In the discussion, a new idea began to dawn. Perhaps, if the committee called upon the resources of the Lord’s storehouse—the talents and skills of ward members—even this difficult situation could be assisted.The committee first focused on future possibilities as well as immediate needs. As possibilities turned to reality, hope and optimism replaced gloom and depression. Filled with hope, the family committed to help improve their own situation. The committee also went to work. A hairstylist gave the family haircuts. A dentist volunteered, and for the first time in years, a mother was not embarrassed to smile. A new pair of glasses allowed this mother to once again read to her children. A financial specialist worked with the family in budgeting their funds. A three-year-old received much needed physical therapy.Slowly the family began to believe their life could be different. The apartment, once dirty and disorganized, began to show signs of order and cleanliness. Curtains went up on the windows. Just a year later invitations were extended by this family to an open house for their three-bedroom home.A wounded family was found by the side of the road, a family suffering just as much as the traveler from Jerusalem in Jesus’ day. The family’s cries were heard, and their wounds were bound. The modern good Samaritans followed the divine injunction to  Spiritual lives were also rescued. Today, this family is active in the Church and preparing to receive the blessings of the temple.Bishops use consecrated fast offerings to supply needs beyond those which can be provided by the storehouse. President Hinckley suggested we think “of what would happen if the principles of the fast day and the fast offering were observed throughout the world. The hungry would be fed, the naked clothed, the homeless sheltered. … The giver would not suffer, but would be blessed by his small abstinence. A new measure of concern and unselfishness would grow in the hearts of people everywhere” ( May 1991, 52–53).To help relieve suffering is to cultivate a Christlike character. We are charged, as were those who listened at the feet of the Savior 2,000 years ago, to  The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that it is our responsibility “to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to provide for the widow, to dry up the tear of the orphan, to comfort the afflicted, whether in this church or in any other, or in no church at all, wherever he finds them” ( 15 Mar. 1842, 732).May we be generous with our time and liberal in our contributions for the care of those who suffer. May we commit to the principles of Good Samaritanism and be ever mindful of the need to  I pray in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.