I humbly pray that the Spirit of truth might be with us that we might understand one another, be edified, and rejoice together.As Nephi, I, too, was “born of goodly parents; therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father” and have been “highly favored of the Lord in all my days.”My father was a marvelous example of faith, integrity, and commitment to the gospel. My mother died when I was seven, but in my tender youth she taught me the truths of the gospel. She was a woman of great faith; because of her faith and prayers and a miraculous healing, I have sight in my left eye today. Father was out of town. I severely burned the pupil of my eye with a hot metal lid lifter from our wood-burning stove. Mother exercised her faith and prayed fervently to Heavenly Father as she held me lovingly in her arms. Her prayers were heard and my eye was healed. I am very grateful to have been raised in a loving home by goodly parents.The home is being threatened and challenged more today than ever before. Today less than half of the children born in the United States, and in many countries in the world, will spend their entire childhood in an intact family. Infidelity, divorce, abortion, and abandoned homes are on the increase. The father is rapidly losing his traditional role as caregiver, breadwinner, protector, moral educator, and head of the family.During 1960 to 1990, a 30-year period, births outside of marriage in the United States increased 500 percent and divorce increased 400 percent. As Church members, we are not free from these sinful practices.The home and the family are the fundamental unit of society: as the homes are and families are, so will be the community, the city, the state, and the nation. There is no public morality without private virtue. I repeat, there is no public morality without private virtue. As Latter-day Saints, we have been given much and much is expected of us. We have been taught what is right and true. Let us, therefore, be “doers of the word, … not hearers only,” deceiving ourselves.As husbands, wives, and parents, how can we avoid the pitfalls and temptations of the troubled world we live in? I offer a few time-tested and proven ways that we can be doers, and not hearers only:We have been taught by ancient and modern prophets that “the establishment of a home is not only a privilege, but marriage and proper training of children is a duty of the highest order.”The prophets of Israel taught, “Ye shall teach your children [the commandments] when thou sittest in thine house.”Isaiah taught, “All thy children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of thy children.”“I give unto you a commandment, to teach your children.”Lehi did exhort his family with all the love of a tender parent.President Harold B. Lee said, “The greatest of the Lord’s work you brethren will ever do as fathers will be within the walls of your own home.”We should always remember President David O. McKay’s warning from this pulpit 33 years ago: “No other success can compensate for failure in the home. The poorest shack in which love prevails over a united family is of greater value to God and future humanity than any other riches. In such a home God can work miracles and will work miracles.”The First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, whom we sustain as prophets, seers, and revelators, two years ago solemnly proclaimed to the world our beliefs concerning marriage, parents, and the family. I challenge each of you to read, study, and live by this inspired proclamation. May it become the guideline and standard by which we live in our homes and raise our children.Our homes can be, and should be, a refuge and a sanctuary from the troubled world we live in; may they become such by striving daily to keep sacred the holy covenants we have made.May we join with John of old who said, “I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth,” I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Have you ever wanted to know what the Lord would have you do with your life? Have you ever contemplated what you could do that would be of most worth to you? Have you pondered what life holds for you? If you have, you are not alone. It is a natural thing to wonder what is the purpose of your life and where it will take you.The Bible cites that patriarchs, under inspiration and by the laying on of hands, revealed to certain persons the will of the Lord and what life had in store for them.In this day are there no patriarchs? Are the heavens closed? Has revelation ceased, and is communication between the Lord and His children confined to the writings of the prophets of old as contained in the Bible? Is there no opportunity for revelation? Is there no divine source whereby life’s important questions can be answered?I attest that there is such a source available to you.I testify to you that today the heavens are open and since the spring of the year of 1820, when the boy prophet Joseph Smith Jr. saw the Father and the Son and received an answer to his sincere prayer, there has always been one of the Lord’s anointed here on earth through whom the Lord has and does reveal His word.I witness to you that the Lord’s prophet to all the world, he who holds all the keys pertaining to the last dispensation today, is Gordon B. Hinckley, prophet, seer, and revelator, and the president of the Lord’s kingdom here upon the earth, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.It was through the Prophet Joseph Smith that the Lord restored the priesthood, the fulness of the gospel, and “the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church, namely, apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, and so forth” Patriarchs are charged with the duty of blessing the members of the Church. “Patriarchal blessings contemplate an inspired declaration of the lineage of the recipient. A patriarchal blessing also includes an inspired and prophetic statement of the life possibilities and mission of the recipient. It may include such blessings, promises, advice, admonitions, and warnings as the patriarch may be prompted to give. It should always be made clear that the realization of all promised blessings is conditioned upon faithfulness and the Lord’s will” ( [1970], 3–4).Patriarchal blessings are obtained by worthy members of the Church who are recommended by their bishops. “Every worthy member is entitled to and should receive a patriarchal blessing” ( 2).You may feel that you are unimportant, too old, and that the Lord has no blessing for you. Or perhaps you have sinned and even though you have repented consider yourself unworthy of a blessing or to receive a blessing. If that is so, I suggest that you make an appointment with your bishop, seek his advice, follow his counsel, and actively and humbly solicit the blessings of heaven.I can testify to you that these blessings are inspired and are personal revelations to the recipient. Patriarchal blessings are a guideline or similar to a road map that indicates the paths that may be traveled and destinations that may be reached if we stay within those paths. They may bring comfort and joy and encouragement when we have need to look, to listen, and to feel of the contents of these blessings so that we may go forward on life’s journey, not alone, but with the accompanying Spirit of our Father in Heaven.A patriarch received a call one afternoon from a concerned mother of a young daughter who was physically challenged from birth. This dear mother asked if her daughter could possibly receive a patriarchal blessing. The patriarch informed her that if her daughter could obtain a recommend from the bishop, he was sure that the Lord had a blessing for her. A short time later the patriarch was informed that the bishop had given this sweet young girl a recommend to receive a patriarchal blessing.An appointment was made. The blessing was given and gratefully received. Her lineage was given. She received a blessing suited to her needs and unique situation. Lives, focus, and attitudes were changed. She was told that through her cheerful acceptance of the efforts and sacrifices of those who loved and cared for her, she would be blessing their lives, and to accept their offerings graciously and willingly.The Lord loves His children and wants to bless them and wants all of them to return to Him and dwell in His presence for time and all eternity (see  The Lord is willing to pronounce His blessing upon those who love Him and keep His commandments.It is my sincere prayer that all who desire a blessing at the Lord’s hand may live worthy so as to obtain it, and that we who have received a patriarchal blessing may so live as to always be worthy of the blessings that have been revealed to us through the Lord’s servant, the patriarch, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.