The wide-bodied airliner began its takeoff roll, returning us to the United States after a four-year business assignment in Switzerland. As we accelerated past the B Concourse at the Zürich International Airport, I strained to see if the faithful farewell wishers from our Zürich Second Ward were there. Sure enough, there standing on the upper spectator deck waving to us were Sister Gräub and Sister Kappes. By bus, tram, and train they had made this extraordinary effort to say good-bye to the Hancock family. Pent-up emotions erupted as tears unashamedly poured down my cheeks. One of our four children returning with us inquired of her mother, “Why is Daddy crying?” Connie responded, “Because he loves the people here so much.”These dear Swiss sisters symbolize so many of Heavenly Father’s faithful daughters who go about doing good. The lack of a car for transportation, or a husband for love and protection, or a supportive family, or a special understanding friend does not dampen their enthusiasm for the gospel of Jesus Christ or their participation in Church meetings and related activities.We thrill in the loyalty and love of the recently widowed Ruth for her mother-in-law, Naomi, who earlier had also lost her husband. The Moabitess chose to leave her homeland to accompany and care for Naomi. Down through the generations of time the beautiful words of this faithful and determined daughter, who would with Boaz be a progenitor of Jesse, David, and Jesus Christ, speak to our yearning hearts: “Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God” Legion are the stories that could and need to be told of women valiant in their testimonies of Jesus Christ who are unsung heroines in our midst.Amongst these noble women are those who, through the tragedy of divorce or untimely death of a husband, are of necessity required to take on the additional challenge of employment to provide for family and self. Though physically and emotionally exhausted upon returning home each day, she resumes her most important role of feeding, teaching, encouraging, correcting, and loving her children so that they are nurtured in mind and spirit to be socially responsible, financially self-sufficient, and committed to serving the Lord. Her challenging burdens are frequently overlooked and not understood by those blessed with two-parent families. Wise are the bishop, priesthood leader, and Relief Society president who ensure that carefully selected home and visiting teachers are given the opportunity to assist her with her children’s needs and home maintenance. Their regular messages and visits bring hope and encouragement so often when most needed.There are those family-devoted women, whether single or married, who in this life have been unable to have children of their own. The maternal instinct causes them to reach out and care for the children of others as if they were their own. What a wonderful gift it is to have such a special aunt whose humble abode and loving personal interest make for a joyous second home.There are those dear women, young and old, with special sensitivity to the Spirit, who seem to effortlessly respond to the missionaries’ message and without family support join the Church. There they find love, respect, and the opportunity to serve, which ofttimes brings relief from contention, abuse, and hopelessness. The coming week can more easily be navigated following a Sabbath day where she was “numbered among the people of the church of Christ” and “remembered and nourished by the good word of God, to keep [her] in the right way, to keep [her] continually watchful unto prayer, relying alone upon the merits of Christ” There are those women of misfortune laden with despair, sorrow, lack of love at home, or the guilt and consequences from having trodden in forbidden paths. Away from the community of the Saints, where succor can be provided, they await being befriended by one in whom they can confidently place their injured trust and who can restore their self-esteem and tenderly accompany them back to truth and light.There is the patient woman whose husband is a good man but has not yet shared her need for him to return to or join the Church and bring the blessings of the priesthood into their home and family. She quietly but fervently prays for that good Samaritan in the Church who can uniquely reach out and relate to her husband in a Christlike way to lead him to the Church, where he can feel welcomed, needed, and loved. The baggage of the past with feelings of guilt and unworthiness are dispelled by the warmth of those who with her see the goodness of his soul.As the Swiss movers were packing our household belongings preparatory to our return to America, the doorbell rang. A special-delivery mailman had a package for us. When opened, it revealed a green pillow with an embroidered message of love on it, the handiwork of Sister Alice Rusterholz. Our hearts and feelings swelled as we thought of this wonderful older sister. For four years she had graced our Sunday dinner table with her sweet spirit and lively sense of humor. For many years as a single, unmarried sister and the only member of the Church from her family, she struggled to come to church. Early Sunday morning she would leave her humble second-floor apartment. With great effort due to a crippled leg, she would walk down the outside stairway and on to the Küsnacht train station, beginning her journey of one hour and 15 minutes by train, tram, bus, and a final walk to our meetinghouse. What a blessing it had been for us in that beautiful land to pick up Sister Rusterholz every Sunday morning, accompany her to church, and conclude with dinner in our home before returning her to her apartment.There are many sweet, faithful daughters of our Heavenly Father who bless our lives. May we better understand them and be as sensitive to their needs as was the Savior when He instinctively sensed the touching of the hem of His garment and the faith of a long-diseased woman behind Him. As Jesus said to her, so may our actions affirm to our noble sisters: “Daughter, be of good comfort” Of Him and His invitation to love one another as He loves us, I do testify in His name, even Jesus Christ, amen.The Lord has carefully provided a plan of life called the plan of salvation. It comprises all of the laws, ordinances, principles, and doctrines required to complete our mortal journey and progress to a state of exaltation enjoyed by our Father in Heaven. The Lord spoke to Moses and said, “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.” Through His divine work—the Creation, the Fall, and the Atonement—He makes this plan available to all.As a recently retired airline pilot, I’ve filed many flight plans in my years of flying—flight plans that led me safely to my destination. Airlines also have laws, procedures, principles, and regulations. We carefully follow these strict procedures and checklists that are grouped into three specific areas. First, we have normal procedures; these we do regularly and consistently, every flight, to ensure safety. Next, we have abnormal procedures; these are used when something out of the ordinary takes place, like the loss of a hydraulic or electrical system. Abnormal procedures must be done precisely and in proper sequence and order to “restore all systems to normal.” Finally, we have emergency procedures used only in the most dire and critical of circumstances, like a flameout, rapid depressurization, or severe turbulence.In these procedures I find close parallels to the plan of salvation. First, the Lord has created a beautiful earth for His children to live on and mortal bodies that are temples for our spirits. Our bodies are truly a joy and a pleasure in our flight through life. The Book of Mormon tells us “men are, that they might have joy.” We must not corrupt nor misuse our wonderful bodies; they are God-given, sacred, and designed by the Lord—a perfect example of the beauty of His creations.We are raised by mortal parents, whose kind and loving care teach us correct principles or normal procedures, that, if followed daily, will surely help us continue life’s flight plan. We are taught principles such as love, honesty, kindness, patience, trust, sharing, repentance, obedience, faith, baptism, prayer, and a host of other eternal principles. These are taught in a family setting by diligent and loving parents and reinforced by kind brothers, sisters, and friends. These normal procedures come as basic training in the Lord’s plan of salvation.The Lord tells us to “honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Show your parents love and respect, for they, in partnership with the Lord, are responsible for your mortal bodies and basic training. How grateful I am for kind and loving parents, who taught me these true principles of life.Next there are abnormal procedures, which I liken to the abnormal happenings in our daily lives, like the disappointment of failing a class in school due to laziness or apathy, carelessness leading to injury or accident, or disobedience leading to serious sin—sin that requires complete repentance followed by forgiveness. These abnormals sometimes are part of our lives and must be overcome. I once asked a retiring chief pilot how he managed to fly nearly 40 years without an accident or even incident.He replied, “Good decisions.”“And how do you always make good decisions?” I asked.He replied, “Experience.”“And how do you gain experience?” I persisted.“Bad decisions,” was his response.But my pilot friend was wrong; there is no need to make bad decisions. President Marion G. Romney once stated, “Now, I tell you that you can make every decision in your life correctly if you can learn to follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit.” This, plus frequent reference to the scriptures, allows us to learn much from the experiences of others. If, however, we do make mistakes, the Lord expects us to learn from our bad decisions, and our normal and abnormal procedures require us to confess, repent, and seek forgiveness. And thus, by so doing, even failure can become success. The Lord’s plan has given us those who care and comfort us in times of failure and sin: our parents, bishops, quorum leaders, and advisers. I am grateful for a plan that provides these wonderful parents, leaders, and teachers who really care! I’m especially grateful for our Savior, whose Atonement makes repentance and forgiveness possible.Although our abnormal procedures must occasionally be used, if we are humble and wise and use good judgment, we will always repent and return all systems to normal. In flying, they say a superior pilot is one who uses superior judgment to avoid situations that require superior skill and tremendous effort to overcome. The repentance process should become a frequent normal procedure to teach us to deal with the infrequent abnormal occurrences of life—oh, the difference between  and Fortunately, in my flying career I’ve rarely needed to use emergency procedures, even though I frequently trained and prepared for them. Emergency procedures provide help and direction in the most dire of circumstances. Some of these we all must face as we experience the severe turbulence of life, such as the loss of a loved one, the discovery of a serious disease, estrangement, or financial disaster. Emergency procedures are used in times of utmost peril when one’s testimony is tested and tried. We then must rely on our inner strength, a knowledge of the gospel which reminds us of the principles we hold dear, and the comfort that comes when we endure all things, and rely on the Savior and allow His Spirit to warm us with His cloak of love. We find solace by searching the scriptures, pondering messages of prophets, and feeling the deep love and devotion of our spouse, family, and friends. With the use of emergency procedures, we carefully but surely maintain our flight plan to our eternal destination.Are you familiar with your flight plan of life—the Lord’s plan of salvation? Can you effectively use the normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures, or principles the Lord has provided? Do you study, practice, train, and rehearse these divine principles? Are you prepared in every respect to follow this great plan of salvation?If not, then do as we do in the airlines—enroll yourself in a refresher course, the Lord’s recurrent training:The Prophet Joseph Smith told us, “A man filled with the love of God, is not content with blessing his family alone, but ranges through the whole world, anxious to bless the whole human race.” We should all do likewise.What a great and wonderful plan is the plan of salvation, which, like the many flight plans I’ve filed, teaches true principles to allow completion of our journey through life.I know God lives, and I testify of Jesus Christ; He is God’s Only Begotten Son, our Savior and Redeemer, who loves us all. I’m grateful for His marvelous plan of salvation, our flight plan of life. In Jesus’ name, amen.