When Nicodemus came to Jesus early in the Savior’s ministry, he spoke for all of us when he said, “Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God.”Christ was, of course, much more than a teacher. He was the very Son of God, the Holy One of the eternal gospel plan, the Savior and Redeemer of the world.But Nicodemus was starting about the way you and I started, the way any child or young student or new convert begins—by recognizing and responding to a thrilling teacher who touches the innermost feelings of our heart.In recent months President Gordon B. Hinckley has called on us to hold our people close to the Church, especially the newly converted member. In issuing this call President Hinckley has reminded that we all need at least three things to remain firmly in the faith—a friend, a responsibility, and “[nourishing] by the good word of God.”Inspired instruction in the home and in the Church helps provide this crucial element of nourishing by the good word of God. We are  grateful to all who teach. We love you and appreciate you more than we can say. We have great confidence in you. To teach effectively and to feel you are succeeding is demanding work indeed. But it is worth it. We can receive “no greater call.” Surely the opportunity to magnify that call exists everywhere. The need for it is everlasting. Fathers, mothers, siblings, friends, missionaries, home and visiting teachers, priesthood and auxiliary leaders, classroom instructors—each is, in his or her own way, “come from God” for our schooling and our salvation. In this Church it is virtually impossible to find anyone who is  a guide of one kind or another to his or her fellow members of the flock. Little wonder that Paul would say in his writings, “God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers.”For each of us to “come unto Christ,” to keep His commandments and follow His example back to the Father is surely the highest and holiest purpose of human existence. To help others do that as well—to teach, persuade, and prayerfully lead them to walk that path of redemption also—surely that must be the second most significant task in our lives. Perhaps that is why President David O. McKay once said, “No greater responsibility can rest upon any man [or woman] than to be a teacher of God’s children.” We are, in fact, all somewhat like the man of Ethiopia to whom Philip was sent. Like him, we may know enough to reach out for religion. We may invest ourselves in the scriptures. We may even give up our earthly treasures, but without sufficient instruction we may miss the meaning of all this and the requirements that still lie before us. So we cry with this man of great authority, “How can [we understand,] except some [teacher] should guide [us]?”The Apostle Paul taught: “For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.“[But] how then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard?“ and hearing by the word of God.”Now, at a time when our prophet is calling for more faith through hearing the word of God, we must revitalize and reenthrone superior teaching in the Church—at home, from the pulpit, in our administrative meetings, and surely in the classroom. Inspired teaching must never become a lost art in the Church, and we must make certain our quest for it does not become a lost tradition.President Spencer W. Kimball once pled: “Stake presidents, bishops, and branch presidents, please take a particular interest in improving the quality of teaching in the Church. … I fear,” he said, “that all too often many of our members come to church, sit through a class or a meeting, and … then return home having been largely [uninspired]. It is especially unfortunate when this happens at a time … of stress, temptation, or crisis [in their life]. We all need to be touched and nurtured by the Spirit,” he said, “and  is one of the most important ways this can happen. We often do vigorous work,” President Kimball concluded, “to get members to come to Church but then do not adequately watch over what they receive when they do come.” On this subject President Hinckley himself has said,  May I repeat that. “Effective teaching is the very essence of leadership in the Church. Eternal life,” President Hinckley continued, “will come only as men and women are  that they change and discipline their lives. They cannot be coerced into righteousness or into heaven. They must be led, and that means teaching.”Among the last words the Savior said to His disciples and among the first words He says to us today are: “Go ye therefore, and teach all nations. … [Teach] them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you [always], even unto the end of the world.” To Peter, the apostolic leader of the Church, the resurrected and ascending Christ said, “Feed my lambs, … feed my sheep, … follow [thou] me.”In all of this we must remember that the Lord has never given more emphatic counsel to the Church than that we are to teach the gospel “by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth.”Do we teach the gospel “by the Spirit of truth?” He has inquired. Or do we teach it “some other way? And if it be by some other way,” He warns, “it is not of God.” In language echoing other commandments, He has said, “If ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach.”No eternal learning can take place without that quickening of the Spirit from heaven. So, parents, teachers, and leaders, we must face our tasks the way Moses faced the promised land. Knowing he could not succeed any other way, Moses said to Jehovah, “If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence.”That is what our members really want when they gather in a meeting or come into a classroom anyway. Most people don’t come to church looking merely for a few new gospel facts or to see old friends, though all of that is important. They come seeking a spiritual experience. They want peace. They want their faith fortified and their hope renewed. They want, in short, to be nourished by the good word of God [see  to be strengthened by the powers of heaven. Those of us who are called upon to speak or teach or lead have an obligation to help provide that, as best we possibly can. We can only do that if we ourselves are striving to know God, if we ourselves are continually seeking the light of His Only Begotten Son. Then, if our hearts are right, if we are as clean as we can be, if we have prayed and wept and prepared and worried until we don’t know what more we can do, God can say to us as He did to Alma and the sons of Mosiah: “Lift up thy head and rejoice. … I will give unto you success.”We do have a legitimate worry about the new member, wanting each one to stay with us and enjoy the full blessings of the Church. I am just simple enough to think that if we continue to —with the same Christlike spirit, conviction, doctrine, and personal interest the missionaries have shown them—new converts will not only stay with us but, quite literally, could not be kept away. The need for continuing such solid teaching is obvious. In times like ours we  need what Mormon called “the virtue of the word of God” because, he said, it “had [a] more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them.” When crises come in our lives—and they will—the philosophies of men interlaced with a few scriptures and poems just won’t do. Are we really nurturing our youth and our new members in a way that will sustain them when the stresses of life appear? Or are we giving them a kind of theological Twinkie—spiritually empty calories? President John Taylor once called such teaching “fried froth,” the kind of thing you could eat all day and yet finish feeling totally unsatisfied. During a severe winter several years ago, President Boyd K. Packer noted that a goodly number of deer had died of starvation while their stomachs were full of hay. In an honest effort to assist, agencies had supplied the superficial when the substantial was what had been needed. Regrettably they had  the deer but they had not  them.I love what President J. Reuben Clark said of our youth well over a half century ago. The same thing can be said of new members. “[They] are hungry for the things of the spirit,” he said; “they are eager to learn the Gospel, and they want it straight, undiluted. …“… You do not have to sneak up behind [them] and whisper religion in [their] ears; … you can bring these truths [out] openly.”Satan is certainly not subtle in his teachings; why should we be? Whether we are instructing our children at home or standing before an audience in church, let us  make our faith difficult to detect. Remember—we are to be teachers “come from God.” Never sow seeds of doubt. Avoid self-serving performance and vanity. Prepare lessons well. Give scripturally based sermons. Teach the revealed doctrine. Bear heartfelt testimony. Pray and practice and try to improve. In our administrative meetings let us both “instruct and edify” as the revelations say, that even in these our teaching may ultimately be “from on high.” The Church will be the better for it, and so will you, for as Paul said to the Romans, “Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?”A memorable account of the power of such teaching comes from the life of the prophet Jeremiah. This great man felt the way most teachers or speakers or Church officers feel when called—inexperienced, inadequate, frightened. “Ah, Lord,” he cried, “behold, I cannot speak: for I am [but] a child.”But the Lord reassured him: “Be not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee. … Therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them.”So speak unto them he did, but initially not with much success. Things went from bad to worse until finally he was imprisoned and made a laughingstock among the people. Angry that he had been so mistreated and maligned, Jeremiah vowed, in effect, never to teach another lesson, whether that be to an investigator, Primary child, new convert, or—heaven forbid—the 15-year-olds. “I will not make mention of [the Lord], nor speak any more in his name,” the discouraged prophet said. But then came the turning point of Jeremiah’s life. Something had been happening with every testimony he had borne, every scripture he had read, every truth he had taught. Something had been happening that he hadn’t counted on. Even as he vowed to close his mouth and walk away from the Lord’s work, he found that he could not. Why? Because “his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.”That is what happens in the gospel to both the teacher and the taught. It is what happened to Nephi and Lehi when, the book of Helaman says, “the Holy Spirit of God did come down from heaven, and did enter into their hearts, and they were filled as if with fire, and they could speak forth marvelous words.” Surely it must have been that kind of heavenly joy Mary Magdalene experienced when near the Garden Tomb she unexpectedly beheld her beloved resurrected Lord and said to Him simply, “Rabboni,” which is to say, literally, “Teacher.”From all of us who have been taught to all of you who teach—we say thank you, from the bottom of our hearts. May we exalt the teaching experience within the home and within the Church and improve our every effort to edify and instruct. In all of our meetings and all of our messages may we nourish by the good word of God. And may our children and new converts, our neighbors and new friends, say of our honest efforts, “Thou art a teacher come from God.”   In the sacred name of the Master Teacher, Jesus Christ, amen.Nineteen ninety-seven was a
      wonderful year in the Church. The sesquicentennial celebration of the arrival of the Mormon
      pioneers in the Salt Lake Valley attracted attention all over the world. Newspapers,
      magazines, television, and radio told our story. What a grand opportunity it was for the
      peoples of the world to learn more about who we are. Now we must determine whether we will
      just let it stand as a great media event or whether it will be an opportunity to better
      fulfill our charge to take the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.I am certain the Lord expects
      us to do the latter. When we were brought forth out of the waters of baptism and were
      confirmed members of the Church of Jesus Christ, we covenanted with the Lord that we would be
      part of bringing His gospel message to His children. I pondered this renewed opportunity which
      is ours and started to examine myself. How prepared am I to make a contribution to the
      kingdom?As I reviewed my
      qualifications, my mind turned to the teachings early in my life in Primary when I was between
      3 and 12 years of age. The Primary had a profound influence on my life and fortified the
      teachings of noble parents. Before I could move into the Aaronic Priesthood, join the Boy
      Scouts, or enter into senior Sunday School, I had to graduate from Primary. Two requirements
      were to memorize the names of the current Twelve Apostles and the 13 Articles of Faith  I had
      to stand beside my bishop in a sacrament meeting and answer a question directed from him to
      certify my completion of Primary graduation requirements. I knew the bishop would usually ask
      prospective Primary graduates to repeat one of the Articles of Faith. The bishop was my
      father, and you can rest assured he didn’t let me off easy! Of course, he asked me to repeat
      the 13th article of faith, the longest, before he presented me with my Primary graduation
      certificate.As I’ve reflected on this
      experience, I’ve quizzed myself,  I discovered I could still name the Twelve Apostles that
      existed at that time—Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards,
      David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, Stephen L Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J.
      Ballard, John A. Widtsoe, Joseph F. Merrill, and Charles A. Callis. But after the first five
      articles of faith, I had trouble remembering their order and their full content. I needed a
      refresher course! I photocopied the Articles of Faith from the scriptures and taped them to
      the wall of my bathroom where I could see them each morning as I was brushing my teeth and
      shaving. Within a very few days, I again had them firmly in mind. This experience has brought
      a deep conviction to me that they were given by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I
      reached the conclusion that if I studied the content of each of the Articles of Faith, I could
      explain and defend every gospel principle I might have the opportunity to expound to someone
      searching for the restored truth.What a great blessing it would
      be if every member of the Church memorized the Articles of Faith and became knowledgeable
      about the principles contained in each. We would be better prepared to share the gospel with
      others.Let us review for a moment how
      the Articles of Faith came to be. The Prophet was often asked to explain the teachings and
      practices of Mormonism. “John Wentworth, editor of the  asked Joseph Smith to provide him with a sketch of ‘the rise, progress,
      persecution, and faith of the Latter-Day Saints.’” Mr. Wentworth, originally from New
      Hampshire, desired this information to help a friend compile a history of his native state.
      “Joseph complied with this request and sent Wentworth a multi-page document containing an
      account of many of the early events in the history of the Restoration, including the First
      Vision and the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. The document also contained thirteen
      statements outlining Latter-day Saint beliefs, which have come to be known as the Articles of
      Faith.” The information sent to Wentworth was not published in the  but in the Church newspaper,  published in March of 1842. “In 1851 the Articles of Faith were included in
      the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price published in the British Mission. After the
      Pearl of Great Price was revised in 1878 and canonized in 1880, the Articles of Faith became
      official doctrine of the Church” (see  [Church Educational System Manual, 1993], 256–57).Perhaps a brief review of the
      content of each of the 13 Articles of Faith will help in memorizing them to explain the basic
      doctrines of the Church.The first article  anchors our
      belief in God, our Eternal Father, in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. How
      grateful we are for a knowledge of Supreme Beings that rule and govern this world. Our belief
      does not come from the speculations of men about the existence and nature of God, but from
      firsthand experience from the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. His experience
      clarified for mankind the existence of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost.
      Thus to the world came the vision that three personages comprise this great presiding council
      of the universe and have revealed themselves to mankind as three separate beings, physically
      distinct from each other as demonstrated by the accepted records of their divine dealings with
      mankind. We know the occasions where they have been in evidence to mankind as three distinct
      personages. It is clear that the Father is a personal being possessing a definite form of
      body, parts, and spiritual passions, that Jesus Christ was with the Father in spirit before
      coming to dwell in the flesh, and through whom worlds were made. He lived among men as a man,
      with all of the physical characteristics of a human being. After His Resurrection He appeared
      in that same form. The Holy Ghost, also called Spirit or Spirit of the Lord, Spirit of God,
      Comforter, or the Spirit of the Truth, is not tabernacled in a body of flesh and bones but is
      a personage of spirit. The Holy Ghost is a witness of the Father and of the Son declaring to
      man their attributes, bearing record of the other personages of the Godhead.The second and third articles
      announce our belief in the Atonement of our Lord and Savior, that through Him all mankind will
      be blessed with immortality. They state that we have the responsibility for accepting Him as
      our Savior, and we will only be responsible for our “own sins and not for Adam’s
      transgression”  [and The fourth and fifth articles
      refer to our belief in the first principles of the gospel. They are faith in the Lord Jesus
      Christ and repentance. We also learn that the first ordinances of the gospel are baptism and
      the gift of the Holy Ghost. These ordinances are bestowed by men “called of God, by prophecy,
      and by the laying on of hands by those” who have the authority to administer them  and] We believe that from the very
      beginning the Lord established a plan for His children on earth. He would, in times and
      seasons, have the priesthood on earth to bless mankind with the authority to perform the
      sacred ordinances that would prove man’s obedience to His will. There were tests to be
      conducted as we progressed in each step towards achieving God’s greatest gift, the gift of
      life eternal. Fundamental, then, is having faith in His plan, in His law, to be clean and holy
      and to repent of our sins, and to partake of the sacred ordinance of baptism required for
      admission into His celestial kingdom. And after baptism to be given the great gift, that
      Comforter, to abide with us, to lead and guide and direct us as we progress through
      mortality—all of these done under the authority given to mankind from God. Each man who
      officiates can trace that authority directly back to the Lord Himself, who bestowed that right
      on mankind.Building on the foundation
      established in the first five articles of faith, the sixth article tells us that an
      organization is necessary, and the same organization that existed in the primitive Church has
      been restored. The restored Church exists on the earth today, with the sacred power received
      through the restoration of the holy priesthood The seventh and ninth
      articles profess that the heavens are not closed, that God continues to reveal His will to
      mankind; as He has in the past, He does now in the present, and He will in the future.
      Spiritual gifts are received by mankind today, just as they were in days past.  and The eighth article states our
      belief in the Bible as the “word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe
      the Book of Mormon to be the word of God”   The Book of Mormon gives to us that second witness
      of the authenticity of the scriptures as recorded in the Bible. The Lord, in His divine plan
      for the restoration of the gospel in the latter days, brought forth the Book of Mormon as that
      additional witness to the mission of our Lord and Savior. It also provides a religious history
      that is profoundly important to our Father in Heaven’s children.Article 10 tells of our
      belief “in the literal gathering of Israel,” that Zion will be built again and Christ will
      return and “reign personally upon the earth.” It was in June of 1830 that Samuel Smith, the
      brother of the Prophet, embarked on the first missionary journey to proclaim the truthfulness
      of the Book of Mormon. Thus began the gathering of Zion. The word went forth from Mount Zion
      to the peoples of the earth that the gospel had been restored. Today the work of uniting our
      Father in Heaven’s children continues as we prepare for His ultimate return, for His
      millennial reign over the earth. We are anxiously and personally engaged in that great literal
      gathering when we profess His everlasting gospel to our friends, our neighbors, and the other
      peoples of the earth. The 11th and 12th articles
      profess our belief in religious liberty, tolerance, and agency. Agency is one of the great
      gifts of God to His children. It allows all men and women the right to choose for themselves
      and to earn their own individual salvation. Also declared is our belief in secular governments
      and “in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law” of the land  and] The 13th article provides a
      special insight into how we should conduct our lives and present ourselves before the peoples
      of the earth. It reads: “We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and
      in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe
      all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all
      things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek
      after these things.” The Articles of Faith were
      not the work of a team of scholars but were authored by a single, inspired man who declared
      comprehensively and concisely the essential doctrines of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They
      contain direct and simple statements of the principles of our religion, and they constitute
      strong evidence of the divine inspiration that rested upon the Prophet Joseph Smith.I encourage each of you to
      study the Articles of Faith and the doctrines they teach. They are “one of the most important
      statements of inspiration, history, and doctrine for the Church. … Each article is a positive
      statement [explaining] the differences between Mormonism and the [beliefs of other peoples of
      the world]” ( 257). If
      you will use them as a guide to direct your studies of the Savior’s doctrine, you will find
      yourselves prepared to declare your witness of the restored, true church of the Lord. You will
      be able to declare with conviction: “We believe these things.”I add my testimony to the
      truthfulness of these special revealed truths in the name of our Lord and Savior, even Jesus
      Christ, amen.