Nineteen ninety-seven was a
      wonderful year in the Church. The sesquicentennial celebration of the arrival of the Mormon
      pioneers in the Salt Lake Valley attracted attention all over the world. Newspapers,
      magazines, television, and radio told our story. What a grand opportunity it was for the
      peoples of the world to learn more about who we are. Now we must determine whether we will
      just let it stand as a great media event or whether it will be an opportunity to better
      fulfill our charge to take the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.I am certain the Lord expects
      us to do the latter. When we were brought forth out of the waters of baptism and were
      confirmed members of the Church of Jesus Christ, we covenanted with the Lord that we would be
      part of bringing His gospel message to His children. I pondered this renewed opportunity which
      is ours and started to examine myself. How prepared am I to make a contribution to the
      kingdom?As I reviewed my
      qualifications, my mind turned to the teachings early in my life in Primary when I was between
      3 and 12 years of age. The Primary had a profound influence on my life and fortified the
      teachings of noble parents. Before I could move into the Aaronic Priesthood, join the Boy
      Scouts, or enter into senior Sunday School, I had to graduate from Primary. Two requirements
      were to memorize the names of the current Twelve Apostles and the 13 Articles of Faith  I had
      to stand beside my bishop in a sacrament meeting and answer a question directed from him to
      certify my completion of Primary graduation requirements. I knew the bishop would usually ask
      prospective Primary graduates to repeat one of the Articles of Faith. The bishop was my
      father, and you can rest assured he didn’t let me off easy! Of course, he asked me to repeat
      the 13th article of faith, the longest, before he presented me with my Primary graduation
      certificate.As I’ve reflected on this
      experience, I’ve quizzed myself,  I discovered I could still name the Twelve Apostles that
      existed at that time—Rudger Clawson, Reed Smoot, George Albert Smith, George F. Richards,
      David O. McKay, Joseph Fielding Smith, Stephen L Richards, Richard R. Lyman, Melvin J.
      Ballard, John A. Widtsoe, Joseph F. Merrill, and Charles A. Callis. But after the first five
      articles of faith, I had trouble remembering their order and their full content. I needed a
      refresher course! I photocopied the Articles of Faith from the scriptures and taped them to
      the wall of my bathroom where I could see them each morning as I was brushing my teeth and
      shaving. Within a very few days, I again had them firmly in mind. This experience has brought
      a deep conviction to me that they were given by revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I
      reached the conclusion that if I studied the content of each of the Articles of Faith, I could
      explain and defend every gospel principle I might have the opportunity to expound to someone
      searching for the restored truth.What a great blessing it would
      be if every member of the Church memorized the Articles of Faith and became knowledgeable
      about the principles contained in each. We would be better prepared to share the gospel with
      others.Let us review for a moment how
      the Articles of Faith came to be. The Prophet was often asked to explain the teachings and
      practices of Mormonism. “John Wentworth, editor of the  asked Joseph Smith to provide him with a sketch of ‘the rise, progress,
      persecution, and faith of the Latter-Day Saints.’” Mr. Wentworth, originally from New
      Hampshire, desired this information to help a friend compile a history of his native state.
      “Joseph complied with this request and sent Wentworth a multi-page document containing an
      account of many of the early events in the history of the Restoration, including the First
      Vision and the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. The document also contained thirteen
      statements outlining Latter-day Saint beliefs, which have come to be known as the Articles of
      Faith.” The information sent to Wentworth was not published in the  but in the Church newspaper,  published in March of 1842. “In 1851 the Articles of Faith were included in
      the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price published in the British Mission. After the
      Pearl of Great Price was revised in 1878 and canonized in 1880, the Articles of Faith became
      official doctrine of the Church” (see  [Church Educational System Manual, 1993], 256–57).Perhaps a brief review of the
      content of each of the 13 Articles of Faith will help in memorizing them to explain the basic
      doctrines of the Church.The first article  anchors our
      belief in God, our Eternal Father, in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. How
      grateful we are for a knowledge of Supreme Beings that rule and govern this world. Our belief
      does not come from the speculations of men about the existence and nature of God, but from
      firsthand experience from the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. His experience
      clarified for mankind the existence of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost.
      Thus to the world came the vision that three personages comprise this great presiding council
      of the universe and have revealed themselves to mankind as three separate beings, physically
      distinct from each other as demonstrated by the accepted records of their divine dealings with
      mankind. We know the occasions where they have been in evidence to mankind as three distinct
      personages. It is clear that the Father is a personal being possessing a definite form of
      body, parts, and spiritual passions, that Jesus Christ was with the Father in spirit before
      coming to dwell in the flesh, and through whom worlds were made. He lived among men as a man,
      with all of the physical characteristics of a human being. After His Resurrection He appeared
      in that same form. The Holy Ghost, also called Spirit or Spirit of the Lord, Spirit of God,
      Comforter, or the Spirit of the Truth, is not tabernacled in a body of flesh and bones but is
      a personage of spirit. The Holy Ghost is a witness of the Father and of the Son declaring to
      man their attributes, bearing record of the other personages of the Godhead.The second and third articles
      announce our belief in the Atonement of our Lord and Savior, that through Him all mankind will
      be blessed with immortality. They state that we have the responsibility for accepting Him as
      our Savior, and we will only be responsible for our “own sins and not for Adam’s
      transgression”  [and The fourth and fifth articles
      refer to our belief in the first principles of the gospel. They are faith in the Lord Jesus
      Christ and repentance. We also learn that the first ordinances of the gospel are baptism and
      the gift of the Holy Ghost. These ordinances are bestowed by men “called of God, by prophecy,
      and by the laying on of hands by those” who have the authority to administer them  and] We believe that from the very
      beginning the Lord established a plan for His children on earth. He would, in times and
      seasons, have the priesthood on earth to bless mankind with the authority to perform the
      sacred ordinances that would prove man’s obedience to His will. There were tests to be
      conducted as we progressed in each step towards achieving God’s greatest gift, the gift of
      life eternal. Fundamental, then, is having faith in His plan, in His law, to be clean and holy
      and to repent of our sins, and to partake of the sacred ordinance of baptism required for
      admission into His celestial kingdom. And after baptism to be given the great gift, that
      Comforter, to abide with us, to lead and guide and direct us as we progress through
      mortality—all of these done under the authority given to mankind from God. Each man who
      officiates can trace that authority directly back to the Lord Himself, who bestowed that right
      on mankind.Building on the foundation
      established in the first five articles of faith, the sixth article tells us that an
      organization is necessary, and the same organization that existed in the primitive Church has
      been restored. The restored Church exists on the earth today, with the sacred power received
      through the restoration of the holy priesthood The seventh and ninth
      articles profess that the heavens are not closed, that God continues to reveal His will to
      mankind; as He has in the past, He does now in the present, and He will in the future.
      Spiritual gifts are received by mankind today, just as they were in days past.  and The eighth article states our
      belief in the Bible as the “word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe
      the Book of Mormon to be the word of God”   The Book of Mormon gives to us that second witness
      of the authenticity of the scriptures as recorded in the Bible. The Lord, in His divine plan
      for the restoration of the gospel in the latter days, brought forth the Book of Mormon as that
      additional witness to the mission of our Lord and Savior. It also provides a religious history
      that is profoundly important to our Father in Heaven’s children.Article 10 tells of our
      belief “in the literal gathering of Israel,” that Zion will be built again and Christ will
      return and “reign personally upon the earth.” It was in June of 1830 that Samuel Smith, the
      brother of the Prophet, embarked on the first missionary journey to proclaim the truthfulness
      of the Book of Mormon. Thus began the gathering of Zion. The word went forth from Mount Zion
      to the peoples of the earth that the gospel had been restored. Today the work of uniting our
      Father in Heaven’s children continues as we prepare for His ultimate return, for His
      millennial reign over the earth. We are anxiously and personally engaged in that great literal
      gathering when we profess His everlasting gospel to our friends, our neighbors, and the other
      peoples of the earth. The 11th and 12th articles
      profess our belief in religious liberty, tolerance, and agency. Agency is one of the great
      gifts of God to His children. It allows all men and women the right to choose for themselves
      and to earn their own individual salvation. Also declared is our belief in secular governments
      and “in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law” of the land  and] The 13th article provides a
      special insight into how we should conduct our lives and present ourselves before the peoples
      of the earth. It reads: “We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and
      in doing good to all men; indeed, we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul—We believe
      all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all
      things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek
      after these things.” The Articles of Faith were
      not the work of a team of scholars but were authored by a single, inspired man who declared
      comprehensively and concisely the essential doctrines of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They
      contain direct and simple statements of the principles of our religion, and they constitute
      strong evidence of the divine inspiration that rested upon the Prophet Joseph Smith.I encourage each of you to
      study the Articles of Faith and the doctrines they teach. They are “one of the most important
      statements of inspiration, history, and doctrine for the Church. … Each article is a positive
      statement [explaining] the differences between Mormonism and the [beliefs of other peoples of
      the world]” ( 257). If
      you will use them as a guide to direct your studies of the Savior’s doctrine, you will find
      yourselves prepared to declare your witness of the restored, true church of the Lord. You will
      be able to declare with conviction: “We believe these things.”I add my testimony to the
      truthfulness of these special revealed truths in the name of our Lord and Savior, even Jesus
      Christ, amen.My dear brothers and sisters and friends: I stand humbly at this pulpit, which for well over a hundred years has been sanctified by the word of God spoken in countless inspired messages which have spiritually filled the souls of those who have listened. Consistent with this legacy, I pray that our hearts may be open to all that is said in this conference.Today I wish to speak about the blessings that flow from covenants with the Lord. As a foundation, I begin with the covenant the Lord made with the house of Israel: “But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel; After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their God, and they shall be my people.”This covenant is universal for those of any race being “baptized into Christ.” As Paul states, “If ye be Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.”Covenants are not simply outward rituals; they are real and effective means of change. “Being born again, comes by the Spirit of God through ordinances.” We should always honor and keep sacred the saving covenants we make with the Lord. If we do, He has promised, “Thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things—that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal.”Many covenants are indispensable to happiness here and hereafter. Among the most important are the marriage covenants made between husband and wife. From these covenants flow the greatest joys of life.The covenant of baptism, with its attendant ordinance of confirmation, opens the gate for eternal life.The oath and covenant of the priesthood contains the promise by which worthy elders of the Church shall receive “all that [the] Father hath.”Temple covenants are the basis for attaining the greatest blessings the Lord has for us.We have the great privilege of partaking of the sacrament, the Lord’s Supper. Renewing our baptismal covenants as we partake of the sacrament protects us against all manner of evil. As we worthily partake of the sanctified bread and water in remembrance of the Savior’s sacrifice, we witness unto God the Father that we are willing to take upon us the name of His Son and always remember Him and to keep His commandments which He has given us. If we do these things, we will always have His Spirit to be with us. If we partake of the sacrament regularly and are faithful to these covenants, the law will be in our inward parts and written in our hearts. Let me illustrate this with a story from the “A group of religion instructors [were] taking a summer course on the life of the Savior and focusing particularly on the parables.“When the final exam time came, … the students arrived at the classroom to find a note that the exam would be given in another building across campus. Moreover, the note said, it must be finished within the two-hour time period that was starting almost at that moment.“The students hurried across campus. On the way they passed a little girl crying over a flat tire on her new bike. An old man hobbled painfully toward the library with a cane in one hand, spilling books from a stack he was trying to manage with the other. On a bench by the union building sat a shabbily dressed, bearded man [in obvious distress].“Rushing into the other classroom, the students were met by the professor, who announced they had all flunked the final exam.“The only true test of whether they understood the Savior’s life and teaching, he said, was how they treated people in need.“Their weeks of study at the feet of a capable professor had taught them a great deal of what Christ had said and done.” In their haste to finish the technicalities of the course, however, they failed to recognize the application represented by the three scenes that had been deliberately staged. They learned the letter but not the spirit. Their neglect of the little girl and the two men showed that the profound message of the course had not entered into their inward parts.We must at times search our own souls and discover what we really are. Our real character, much as we would wish, cannot be hidden. It shines from within us transparently. Attempts to deceive others only deceive ourselves. We are often like the emperor in the fairy tale who thought he was arrayed in beautiful garments when he was in fact unclothed.In my lifetime I have seen the faithfulness of Church members increase. Measured by fixed standards, there are greater manifestations of faithfulness than ever before. On any given Sunday, percentagewise more than twice as many people partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper worldwide than when I was growing up.We are trying to care for the poor and the needy among us through the generosity of faithful Church members who observe the law of the fast and participate in the inspired welfare program. Humanitarian aid of many kinds worth millions of dollars has been sent to many countries to relieve hunger and suffering. This is administered according to need and without regard for race, color, or religious creed.More of our people enjoy blessings from living the ancient law of tithing. They voluntarily return to the Lord one-tenth of the increase He has given them. Hundreds of thousands more of our faithful Saints enjoy the privilege of temple worship. We now have 58,000 missionaries serving in the field. I rejoice in this, and I am sure the Lord is pleased. But I wonder if we have become proportionately more Christlike. Does our service come from a pure heart?I speak of the importance of keeping covenants because they protect us in a world that is drifting from time-honored values that bring joy and happiness. In the future this loosening of moral fiber may even increase. The basic decency of society is decreasing. In the future our people, particularly our children and grandchildren, can expect to be bombarded more and more by the evils of Sodom and Gomorrah.Too many families are being broken up. Good is called evil, and evil is called good. In our present “easiness of the way,” have we forgotten the elements of sacrifice and consecration that our pioneer forebears demonstrated so well for us? It may be that, as Wordsworth suggested:Perhaps in our day and time it is more difficult to maintain moral strength and stand against the winds of evil that blow more fiercely than ever before. It is a sifting process. Today the modern counterparts of Babylon, Sodom, and Gomorrah are alluringly and explicitly displayed on television, the Internet, in movies, books, magazines, and places of entertainment.In the last general conference, President Gordon B. Hinckley warned us about moving too far toward the mainstream of society in some areas such as Sabbath day observance, family disintegration, and other matters. He said: “We have moved too far toward the mainstream of society in this matter. Now, of course there are good families. There are good families everywhere. But there are too many who are in trouble. This is a malady with a cure. The prescription is simple and wonderfully effective. It is love.”In our society many sacred values have been eroded in the name of freedom of expression. The vulgar and the obscene are protected in the name of freedom of speech. The mainstream of society has become more tolerant, even accepting, of conduct that Jesus, Moses, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and other prophets have warned against since the beginning of human history.We should not allow our personal values to erode, even if others think we are peculiar. We have always been regarded as a peculiar people. However, being spiritually correct is much better than being politically correct. Of course, as individuals and as a people we want to be liked and respected. But we cannot be in the mainstream of society if it means abandoning those righteous principles which thundered down from Sinai, later to be refined by the Savior, and subsequently taught by modern prophets. We should only fear offending God and His Son, Jesus Christ, who is the head of this Church.All forms of evil are being masked. I speak of sexual immorality. I speak of wagering for money, which in many places is called gaming rather than gambling. This is typical of how many other evils are masked to make them more acceptable. There is a masking of other conduct which has been condemned throughout the history of mankind, conduct which is destructive to the family, the basic unit of society. In “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” the First Presidency and Twelve stated: “We … solemnly proclaim that marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and that the family is central to the Creator’s plan for the eternal destiny of His children.”The breakdown of parental authority erodes the most indispensable institution of society—the family.Paul spoke of those in his day who demonstrated that “the work of the law [was] written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness.” For members of this Church to enjoy the blessings of a covenant people, the law of the Lord must be written in their hearts. How can they do this when so many voices tell our children and grandchildren that evil is good and good is evil? We would hope that all fathers and mothers, grandfathers and grandmothers, would be better examples in keeping the commandments of God. We ask husbands and wives to try a little harder to be loving and kind with each other. If both parents will insulate their family as far as they can from the many influences that prey upon us, their children are more likely to be safeguarded. Daily scripture study, daily prayer, regular family home evening, obedience to priesthood authority in the home and in the Church constitute a great insurance policy against spiritual deterioration.Joshua spoke unequivocally when he said: “But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. …“And the people said unto Joshua, The Lord our God will we serve, and his voice will we obey.”We are free to accept or reject the counsel of the Lord and His prophets. Often those who do not choose to follow the prophets are voices that criticize those who do.Some of our critics call those who follow their spiritual leaders “mindless sheep.” Jesus said: “And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.“And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.”All of this, of course, did not begin with our generation. Since the beginning, the influences and forces of Satan have constantly warred with God. Satan, the great deceiver, said: “I am also a son of God.” Satan urged the children of Adam not to believe in the things of God, “and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish.” The justification seems to be that everyone does it. It is the “in thing” to do.Ordinances and covenants help us to remember who we are and our duty to God. They are the vehicles the Lord has provided to conduct us into eternal life. If we honor them, He will give us added strength.Elder James E. Talmage affirmed that the true believer, “with the love of God in his soul, pursues his life of service and righteousness without stopping to ask by what rule or law each act is prescribed or forbidden.”In a world where we and our families are threatened by evil on every side, let us remember President Hinckley’s counsel: “If our people could only learn to live by these covenants, everything else would take care of itself.”Faithful members of the Church who are true to their covenants with the Master do not need every jot and tittle spelled out for them. Christlike conduct flows from the deepest wellsprings of the human heart and soul. It is guided by the Holy Spirit of the Lord, which is promised in gospel ordinances. Our greatest hope should be to enjoy the sanctification which comes from this divine guidance; our greatest fear should be to forfeit these blessings. May we so live that we may be able to say, as did the Psalmist: “Search me, O God, and know my heart.” I pray that this may be so in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.