My dear young friends, how we love you. What a blessing it is to be here with you tonight. Not too long ago Elder Robert D. Hales, one of the members of the Quorum of the Twelve, asked the question, “Do our young women know what their baptismal covenants mean?” And then he said, “I wish you would teach them.” I remember thinking to myself,  So tonight, let’s talk for a few minutes about what it really means to become a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and how our baptism can bless our lives.The Savior has likened our baptism to being reborn. I want you to think about two of the greatest moments in your life: the day you were born and the day of your baptism, two very essential births in this lifetime. None of us can remember the day we were born. You can only imagine that your mother held you close in her arms and dreamed of what you would become.Now, it’s probably not as hard to remember the day you were baptized—your second birth. Listen to what Lan-Ting, a Beehive girl from the Philippines, wrote about her baptism: “I felt like I had been born again. What an extraordinary feeling of cleanliness, sinlessness! My mother’s tears flowed like a fountain of pearls, and I could tell these were tears of joy! My mother told me sincerely, ‘Lan-Ting, today I am relieved to say I can turn you over to the Lord. I trust He will accompany you along the roads of your life’” (letter in possession of Young Women office).Baptism is our spiritual rebirth. It cleanses us from head to toe and allows us the companionship of the Savior through the gift of the Holy Ghost. He will accompany each of us along the road of life.Four things happen when we are baptized and confirmed: (1) we become members of Christ’s Church and commit to follow Him; (2) we have our sins forgiven; (3) it allows us entrance to the celestial kingdom; and (4) it is the doorway to personal sanctification (see Bible Dictionary, “Baptism,” 619). We might say we are “made holy.”The first three points are quite obvious. Tonight let’s focus on the fourth point: becoming holy. What does it mean to become holy? Because you have received the Holy Ghost, you are changed. You are a different person. It means you cannot be part of the world anymore; you can never go back. Elder Hales has said, “Help our young women to understand that when they are baptized, they are taken ‘out of the world’ and ‘into the kingdom’” (notes from General Young Women Board meeting, 5 Dec. 1997). You are taken out of the dark and into the light of Christ. It is the beginning of a whole new life.Elder Henry B. Eyring, another member of the Quorum of the Twelve, remembers when he was baptized. On the way home, all he could think of was, “Uh-oh, the free ride is over.” And it’s true. After our baptism, each of us has the blessing of being responsible for every action in our lives.A story is told of the son of King Louis XVI of France. As a young man, he was kidnapped by evil men when they dethroned the king. For six months he was exposed to every filthy and vile thing that life had to offer, yet he never buckled under the pressure. This puzzled his captors, and they asked him why he had such great moral strength. His reply was simple: “I cannot do what you ask, for I was born to be a king” (see Vaughn J. Featherstone, “The King’s Son,”  Nov. 1975, 35). You were born to be daughters of a King. By being baptized, you have been promised the blessings of royalty as you sanctify yourselves and become holy.So how do we do it? How can we become more holy so we may claim our royal heritage? Christ has said, “Follow me, … do the things which ye have seen me do” Share a few stories with me of young women who are following in the light of Christ.A Laurel from Arizona writes: “It was October and our high school homecoming was fast approaching, but I was only 15 and a half when a guy asked me to the dance. I thought about saying yes and meeting him at the dance. My parents wouldn’t know. But then I realized it didn’t matter that my parents didn’t know—Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ always know, and they are the ones who really count. I didn’t go to the dance. Instead I had my girlfriends over. I felt so happy and free and full of life” (letter in possession of Young Women office).A Beehive girl named Rebecca shared this journal entry: “Sometimes I think junior high is really hard. There is this one kid in my class who swears a lot. So I say a little prayer to help me not pay attention to him and to help it not get stuck in my mind. And it works. If you pray, it can solve even your littlest problems” (letter in possession of Young Women office).Still another young woman said: “This past year I haven’t had many friends, but it hasn’t gotten me down because the peace of the Spirit has filled my soul. … Even in those times when I feel lonely or awkward around people, the Lord has been there for me” (letter in possession of Young Women office).A Mia Maid from Utah wrote: “This past year I had some personal challenges. I lost track of the Spirit, and then something incredible happened. I went to my bishop. I can’t remember ever feeling so scared. But the Lord was with me in that room, holding my trembling hand. I knew I could be forgiven. It’s been a hard road—humbling, repenting, and learning to pray all over again. But He was there. He never left me for a minute. I’ve been on both sides, and the light side is definitely the place to be” (letter in possession of Young Women office).Thank you, thank you, young women, for your desire to follow the light of the Savior. All of you have difficult situations in your lives, but you know the source of your spiritual strength. Every time you pray or bear testimony or stand for the right, you shut down the powers of evil in your life.When you walk down the halls at school and see all the other students, do you think to yourself, ? You are not  than they are, but your knowledge of and your commitment to the Savior make you different, and that difference can be an advantage, a blessing.One of the hardest things for many of you is modesty. How can we apply the spiritual power of our baptism to the principle of modesty? We hope one of the things that makes you different from the world is the way you dress. Marcie Matthews, a Laurel from Chicago, Illinois, shares her story:“1998 was a year that I was able to see the results of many Young Women lessons, talks, and advice come into play. I am an average Mormon girl. Being able to keep my life this steady and strong has not been easy. I make goals all the time to help strengthen my testimony and my standards.“Recently we had a Mutual activity on the importance of modesty. Every lesson before I felt like I was a modest dresser, but I knew there was still something I could change—my shorts and the length of my skirts. It was the one weakness that I knew I had but had placed far behind in my head. Everyone wore short shorts, Daisy Dukes, and miniskirts, and I had bought mine with my own money. Then I heard the lesson on modesty. I went home wanting to go straight to my closet and throw away everything that was not modest so it wouldn’t be there to tempt me. After, I told my parents. I guess I was looking for them to tell me that there was no problem in the way I dressed and then let me go.“Later that night my dad told me he was proud of me and that he would like to buy me a couple of knee-length dresses for church. The next step was to go through all my clothes and give away everything. It was hard for me to part with my favorite skirts and the shorts that I loved so much, but I did. “I have never felt better about myself. I love being able to walk into the temple and church and feel like I am a child of God and am representing Him … by the clothes that I wear.“I challenge every young woman to take this step. It will help you find out who you are and what you stand for. When we have to give up something that is a part of us, the blessings will pour in more than you can imagine” (letter in possession of Young Women office).Marcie’s great example epitomizes our Young Women theme. You know, the part that says, “We stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things”—and in all We have talked about the spiritual power of our baptism. We can renew that power every week as we worthily partake of the sacrament. “There is no more eloquent expression in the English language than the sacramental prayers. We invite you to learn by heart the covenants and promises in the prayers on the bread and water” (Elder Dallin H. Oaks, notes in author’s possession). Ponder their meaning that they may bless your life.I pray that you will tend and take care of your baptismal covenants. As you say your prayers, especially each Saturday night, ask Heavenly Father to prepare you to take the sacrament so the spiritual power of your baptism will be present in your life. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Knowing what you may or may not know, what would you think of an eight-year camping trip in the wilderness—no trips to town, no light, not even a fire? This describes the experience Father Lehi and his family had when they were told by the Lord to leave Jerusalem. I’ll bet there was some murmuring in the camp—and not a lot of volunteers! There were undoubtedly young women like you on this marathon trip.The Lord warned them not to make any fires. Then He taught them, “I will … be your light in the wilderness; and I will prepare the way before you, if … ye shall keep my commandments; … ye shall be led towards the promised land; and ye shall know that it is by me that ye are led” You all must have promised lands that you would like to go to, and you can have your own light in that wilderness that challenges young people today. This light comes all wrapped up in love, the Lord’s love for every one of His children, and especially for young people. The Lord knows that you face challenges and temptations, and He provides the light that brightens your hearts, your minds, and your spirits. He has said that His word is truth and truth is light and light is the Spirit of Jesus Christ (see Sunny is an exchange student from Korea. She is living in a strange new land with a new language and a new family. School was hard and she had no friends to eat with or talk with or go to school activities with. She said: “I felt so miserable. Then I started thinking about praying. I had not thought about praying for help to Heavenly Father and for comfort and faith in myself. Then I began to read the Book of Mormon every morning and pray before I went to school. School began to be much easier. I was so surprised that I could understand better! I felt like someone was helping me while I was studying” (letter in possession of Young Women office).You know, don’t you, that prayer turns on the light? When you make prayer a regular part of your life, you begin walking in the light, in the straight and narrow way.When I was about your age, I learned the importance of a straight and narrow path and how difficult it was to be focused and stay on it. I grew up in a very small town in the foothills of the Canadian Rockies. My dad was a farmer, and I learned to work! Every summer I drove the tractor for him, mowing and raking hay, hauling hay bales, and plowing fields. I remember when I first started to learn to plow and cultivate a field. Dad explained the importance of plowing a straight furrow or a straight line. If you went crooked, there would be spots missed in the field and the weeds would take over. He said: “If you will keep your eye focused on the fence post across the field and let that be your goal, you will plow a straight furrow. Don’t let the bumpy terrain throw you off. It’s when you start looking at the end of the tractor that the holes and bumps take you off course and you begin to go crooked.” Then he left me to do the job.I remembered about the fence post across the field for several rounds, then I started singing songs to make the time pass. I sang every song and hymn I knew, and those I didn’t know I made up. I was singing at the top of my lungs and having a good time when I noticed my dad walking through the field towards me. I stopped the tractor and he said, “Can you tell what has happened to the straight lines?”I said, “What do you mean?”He said: “Look at the line. Your first few rounds are straight, but evidently you quit paying attention to where you were plowing. You must have quit looking at the fence post across the field—your goal. Can you see that gradually each time you’ve gone around, you’ve just gone a little crooked until now there are big spots in the field?” He got on the tractor and drove a few rotations to straighten out the lines. As he got off to let me try again, he said, “Sharon, always pay attention to where you are going.”When the pressures of the world seem to overwhelm us and we are tempted to give up what we want most for what we want now, it is difficult to pay attention, to look beyond the moment, beyond the end of the tractor. The holes and bumpy terrain, persuasion from friends who may seem to be having such a good time, can throw us off course. But the light that will help us stay on the straight path is like the goal across the field. If there are times we become distracted and tempted, the Lord will be there to help us straighten out our course. You can walk away from the darkness and come into the light—His light.A young friend who did not understand the importance of having the light, having the Spirit, was trying to explain to me why he thought it was important to see some of the vulgar and violent movies on the market today. He said, “If you don’t see these things, you will be naive and uninformed and the world will take advantage of you.”I asked my young friend, “Would you rather expose yourself to what the world has to offer to be informed and then left on your own to make decisions, or would you choose to be guided by the Lord and live your life to be filled with so much light and truth and goodness that there is no room for darkness?” You can’t be in the light and the dark at the same time.This light is symbolized in the Young Women torch. That torch you wear with your profile in the flame can fuel your desire to stand for truth and righteousness. It is a reminder that Christ is your light and He will show you the way through the happy times and the mists of darkness. You  need to feel alone or forsaken.Emily, a Laurel class president wanting to know the Lord’s will for one of her counselors, describes how this light feels. She said: “I prayed about a certain girl, and I had such a strong revelation—it’s like when your heart and mind make connection and everything is so clear. So I knew without a doubt that she was to be my counselor” (letter in possession of Young Women office). Prayer is what makes the connection with God’s power, which leads to loving and serving, sacrificing, and enlarging your own capacities.The brother of Jared in the Book of Mormon knew about this process. He had built eight barges, or ships, under the direction of the Lord, but they had no light in them. He called upon the Lord for help (and that’s our opportunity too). But the answer did not come in the way he was expecting. The Lord could have easily put light in those barges, but He wanted the light—the light of the Spirit—in the brother of Jared.What do you think the brother of Jared was doing from the time he realized the Lord was not going to give him a flashlight to the time he carved out 16 stones and asked the Lord to touch them and give them light? I think he must have done a great deal of what Sunny Kim and Emily did—fasting and praying and pondering and reading his scriptures and serving and loving and forgiving and just trying to be obedient so he would have the Spirit, the light, to direct him.While the brother of Jared was doing everything he knew to do, was working hard and using every resource available—especially faith in the Lord—he went to the Lord again with his idea, and his efforts were enough. The Lord touched those 16 stones and there was light (see   There are always answers.Many young women are following this light, and the Lord is blessing them. Listen to the testimonies of some who let the Lord be their light:[Note: Several young women bore testimonies via videotape.]Let the Lord be your light. Let Him prepare the way before you to your promised land. “There [is] … no life so dark [that] he cannot light” (Sam Cardon and Steven K. Jones, “Come unto Him,”  Apr. 1995, 10). You don’t have to be a prophet like Lehi or the brother of Jared. Just be you—with a hunger and thirst for righteousness. Trust Him. Keep your eyes riveted on your goal across the field and walk in the straight and narrow path of the Son—the Son of God. I testify of the light and the Spirit that comes from Jesus Christ.In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.