My dear brethren, I am humbled by this opportunity and ask for an interest in your faith and prayers. May we be blessed and guided by the Spirit to hear and feel this evening.A number of years ago I received a telephone call that would change my life—my eternal life.A good sister from my ward called to invite me to perform a dance floor show number at a Mutual activity evening that was being held in a couple of weeks. Dancing was a hobby of mine, and I was studying ballroom dancing at a studio in Salt Lake City. I had never been to a youth MIA dance before, and I was excited to accept the invitation to perform.My partner and I arrived on the appointed evening and were greeted enthusiastically. I was surprised to find that we were the only ones on the program. It was an exciting experience, and I thoroughly enjoyed the evening.The following Sunday morning, I decided to go to church in our ward for the first time since I was ordained a deacon. At that time, none of my family was active. I found people who welcomed me warmly, and they demonstrated a genuine friendship and caring. These experiences started me on the road to activity and service in the Church that has been a joy to me throughout the years.The senior Aaronic Priesthood committee, as it was called then, was a group of brethren who worked with men who were older than the normal Aaronic Priesthood age. These were just regular men who were doing what the Lord wanted them to do. They took me under their wing, and we became good friends. A wonderful returned missionary gave our class instruction. He taught the basics of the gospel and helped prepare me to serve a mission. During this same time I was asked to help teach dancing in the ward, which gave me a feeling of being needed, and it also gave me a responsibility.The next 15 months flew by, filled with growth and happiness as I progressed. I soon received a call to serve a mission in Mexico. I quickly grew to love the language, the country, and its people. Sharing the message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ gave me a foundation upon which to build the rest of my life.I know what it means to have a friend, a responsibility, and to be nurtured by the good word of God. There are many that do not understand what is missing in their lives and hunger for those tender feelings that come from knowing the love of our Savior. They are good people who lie dormant, as it were, awaiting the awakening of their soul by those who bring the “good news.” There are others who watch us, observe our examples, and say, “I like what I see; how can I become a part of it?”I invite you brethren of the priesthood, both young and old, to look around you, seek out, and extend a warm hand of friendship to those less active and nonmembers. Invite them to participate with you. Become their friend, and you will make a difference and bless their lives for generations to come.“Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God;“For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him.“And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance.“And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth!”And may I add this wonderful promise of His: “Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more.”At this Easter season, as we celebrate His Resurrection, let us focus our attention on the price that He paid so willingly for all of those who will follow Him and do His will.I invite all to come and enjoy these great blessings of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ that has been restored.Let us cast aside the traditions of men, all the things that clutter our lives and lead us carefully away from what Moroni called “the right way,” and lift our hearts to Him who has ransomed us, even Jesus Christ our Savior, and follow Him.Listen to the feelings of your heart and follow its prompting as you hear the messages of this conference. You will be taught from on high and receive answers to your prayers.Let us go forth with greater enthusiasm to succor those in need and bring souls unto Him, that they may be fed, nurtured by His good word, and know His tender love. “You shall be laden with sheaves upon your back, for the laborer is worthy of his hire,” and there will be rejoicing in many hearts.That evening so long ago when I was invited to share my talent, the door opened to a wonderful new world of friends and activity in the Church. I am grateful for those who reached out with a warm hand of fellowship, invited me in, nurtured me, and blessed my life.I leave you with my witness that Jesus is the Christ, our Savior and Redeemer. This is His church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.After the children of Israel had crossed the river Jordan and Jericho had been destroyed, they confronted the city of Ai. Ai was a smaller city than Jericho, with fewer defenders, and Joshua thought to conquer it with only 3,000 soldiers. But the men of Ai smote the force of Israel and put them to flight. Joshua prostrated himself before the Lord and queried the reason for their defeat. Then came the answer, and a lesson.When Jericho was destroyed, the Lord forbade them from taking any of the precious possessions to be found therein. But one man, Achan, seized and attempted to hide some of the spoils. “When I saw [them],” he said, “I coveted them, and took them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent”  The Lord commanded them to be destroyed, and Achan was stoned to death.It may seem difficult for us to understand how the dishonesty of one man could have had such a far-reaching effect to cause the defeat of the army of Israel and the death of 36 men. Elder James E. Talmage observed, “A law of righteousness had been violated, and things that were accursed had been introduced into the camp of the covenant people; this transgression interposed resistance to the current of divine help, and until the people had sanctified themselves the power was not renewed unto them” ( 12th ed. [1924], 105; see also When a person violates any of God’s commandments, if there is no repentance the Lord withdraws His protective and sustaining influence. When we lose power with God, we know of a certainty that the problem lies within us and not within God. “I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise”  Our misdeeds bring despair. They sadden and extinguish the “perfect brightness of hope” offered by Christ  Without God’s help, we are left to ourselves.Priesthood is authority to act as an authorized agent of the Lord to perform ordinances which provide certain spiritual blessings to all individuals. It is power to convey the mind and will of God in Church government, in obtaining His word through revelation, in preaching the gospel, and in administering the ordinances of exaltation for both the living and the dead. Truly it is a mighty thing to bear the priesthood of God.We are told that “the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness”  President Spencer W. Kimball reminds us: “There is no limit to the power of the priesthood … you hold. The limit comes  if you do not live in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord and you limit yourselves in the power you exert” ( ed. Edward L. Kimball [1982], 498; emphasis added).As holders of the priesthood of God, we must remember that we “are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people”  We are commanded to “come … out from the wicked, and be … separate, and touch not [the] unclean things” When a man, young or old, accepts and receives the priesthood, there comes a sacred responsibility of magnifying that priesthood. This requires each one of us to serve with diligence, to teach with faith and testimony, to lift and strengthen those whose lives we touch. This means that we cannot live only unto ourselves, but we are also responsible for the growth, development, and welfare of others.There should be nothing automatic about ordination to any office of the priesthood because of age or circumstances. Blessed be the priesthood leader who conscientiously interviews each candidate for priesthood office and receives from that candidate a report of prior honorable service, an affirmation of personal purity and worthiness, and a confirmation of magnified effort and future intent to willingly bear and fulfill the great responsibility of priesthood office.There should be nothing casual, nonchalant, or indifferent about holding priesthood. Once accepted, it should not be ignored, neglected, or cast aside. It is a mantle of honor and power that may be ours forever.By accepting a call to priesthood, each man binds himself by his own integrity to act in a certain way. This brings a sense of responsibility, generating in each of us a power of reinforcement for positive action and a deterrent to slothfulness.For those who take these sacred and holy callings lightly, Elder George Q. Cannon cautions us: “We must honor the Priesthood we hold or that Priesthood, instead of exalting us, will be the means of damning us. … It is a fearful thing to receive the Priesthood of God and not magnify it” ( sel. Jerreld L. Newquist, 2 vols. [1957], 1:229).As we consider the priesthood, let us not forget its true title: the Holy Priesthood, after the Order of the Son of God. Jesus Christ is the great high priest of God. He is the source of all priesthood authority and power on this earth. As our Savior, Mediator, and Redeemer, He is our great exemplar of the path we are to follow—in word, in deed, in belief, in doctrine, in faith, in ordinances, and in our personal righteousness. “For even hereunto were [we] called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps” He has promised us glory, eternal life, exaltation, even all He has, if we faithfully bear His priesthood and magnify all of our callings. We become joint heirs with Him in the kingdom of His Father. The Apostle Paul said it well: “And all those who are ordained unto this priesthood are made like unto the Son of God, abiding a priest continually”  Bible appendix).I bear my solemn witness that it may be so, “relying wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to save”  even our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. In His sacred name, Jesus Christ, amen.