When Jesus was arraigned before Pilate, after a dark, hate-filled night of insult and abuse, the haughty Roman procurator quickly discerned that this was no ordinary mortal. Jesus displayed none of the cringing servility or false bravado characteristic of those who pled for their lives before the power of imperial Rome. He stood quietly before the proud Roman, unbowed, majestic, His demeanor mild yet regal. “Art thou a king then?” Pilate inquired Jesus, the King of Kings, whose Father would have provided for the asking “more than twelve legions of angels”  whose glory and majesty transcended anything Pilate—or indeed any mortal man—could even comprehend, answered simply: “Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth”  Pilate, a weak and vacillating man, devoid of integrity and not overly burdened by principles, retorted cynically, “What is truth?”  Then, though he found no fault in Jesus and knew of a certainty that He was no political firebrand nor threat to Roman power and authority, Pilate yielded to the bloodlust of the crowd and delivered Christ to His crucifiers.“For this cause came I into the world.” What  that cause? Why did Jesus, the Lord God Omnipotent who sits at the right hand of the Father, creator of worlds without number, lawgiver and judge, condescend to come to earth to be born in a manger, live out most of His mortal existence in obscurity, trudge the dusty roads of Judea proclaiming a message which was violently opposed by many, and finally, betrayed by one of His closest associates, die between two malefactors on Golgotha’s somber hill? Nephi, who gloried “in … Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from hell”  understood Christ’s motivation: “He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him”  It was love for all of God’s children that led Jesus, unique in His sinless perfection, to offer Himself as ransom for the sins of others. In the words of the beloved hymn, “Jesus died on Calvary, That all thru him might ransomed be” (“ ’Tis Sweet to Sing the Matchless Love,”  no. 176). This, then, was the consummate cause which brought Jesus to earth to “suffer, bleed, and die for man.” He came as “a lamb without blemish and without spot”  to atone for our sins, that He, being raised on the cross, might draw all men unto Him (see  In Paul’s felicitous phrase, “as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive” The symbol of His triumph over death is the empty tomb. He whom “God raised up the third day”  loosed the “bands of … temporal death, that  shall be raised”  emphasis added) and “gained the victory over the grave”  In Him “the sting of death is swallowed up” Yet Jesus came to bring not only immortality but also eternal life to our Father’s children. Though Christ’s Atonement provides a universal resurrection to all, regardless of merit, the gift of eternal life—life with the Father and Son, in Their perfected presence—is reserved for the faithful, for those who show their love for Christ by their willingness to follow His commandments and to make and keep holy covenants. “He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them,” Jesus reminded us, “he it is that loveth me”  As the prophets throughout the ages have declared, it is only as we make and keep holy covenants—those sacred celestial agreements between God and man—that we may become “partakers of the divine nature” and escape “the corruption that is in the world” Jesus came to earth, first and foremost, as the atoning Savior who died that all might find “peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come”  Yet He came for another cause as well—to serve as the example to all of man’s divine potential, the standard against whom all must measure their lives. He who proclaimed His divinity to the Samaritan woman at Jacob’s well (see  calls us to become “even as I am”  to become perfect “even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect”  From the depths of that ineffable perfection He calls upon us to care for the sick, the poor, the afflicted; to pray for and show compassion towards all of God’s children, for “God is no respecter of persons”  With Him there are no barriers of race or gender or language. As Nephi explained, “He denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God” To those among us who wonder who is our neighbor, He spoke of the good Samaritan; of the shepherd who left the ninety and nine to seek after the one that was lost; and of the man who made a “great supper,” to which were invited “the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind” Jesus, the Master Teacher, repeatedly taught eternal truths drawn from common experiences of life. One such lesson deals with the need to be generous in our giving—to give with the spirit of sacrifice and devout intent to bless those less fortunate than ourselves. Luke records that as Jesus sat in the temple He observed those who cast their contributions into the treasure chests therein. Some deposited their gifts with devoutness and sincerity of purpose, but others, though they gave great sums of silver and gold, did so ostentatiously, primarily to be seen of men.Among the long lines of contributors was a poor widow, who cast into the treasure chest all that she had, two small bronze coins, known as mites. Taken together they amounted to less than half a cent in American money. Noting the disparity between what she gave and the much greater contributions of some others, Jesus proclaimed, “Of a truth … , this poor widow hath cast in more than they all.” Though the rich had given from their abundance, “she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had”  Jesus knew it is not the amount we give that matters. In the arithmetic of heaven, value is determined not by quantity but by quality. It is the intent of the willing heart and mind that is acceptable to God (see Jesus had a special love for children. In both the Old World and the New, He called them to come unto Him (see   The Nephite record bears tender testimony of Christ’s gentle love for little ones: “He took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.“And when he had done this he wept” Jesus knew that little children are pure and without sin. “Except ye be converted, and become as little children,” He said, “ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven”  King Benjamin, the great Nephite prophet, explained what it means to become as a little child: “submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him” In a world where we are confronted each day with so much callous indifference towards the less fortunate, Jesus spoke of the need to give meat to the hungry, drink to the thirsty, shelter to the stranger, clothes to the naked, and to visit the sick and those in prison.In one of the most onerous tests of Christian discipleship, He called upon all to “love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you”  He reminded us that inasmuch as we provide acts of charity to others, even unto those considered by some to be “the least,” “ye have done it unto me” (see  He taught not only of our obligations to help each other temporally but also of the powerful, eternal, spiritual implications of doing so. Indeed, all of His commandments, in the final analysis, are spiritual and not temporal only. Thus, the scriptures advise that “for the sake of retaining a remission of [our] sins from day to day, that [we] may walk guiltless before God, … [we] should impart of [our] substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath” In the final analysis, then, we show our devotion to Christ, and best express our discipleship, by the way in which we live and serve Him. The symbol of Jesus and His place in our hearts must be a life given fully to His service, to loving and caring; to an unstinting commitment to Christ and His cause; to a spiritual rebirth that produces a “mighty change” in our hearts and prepares us to receive “his image in [our] countenances”  To take His name upon us means a willingness to do whatever He requires of us. Someone has said that the price of a Christian life is the same today as always: it is simply to give all that we have, holding back nothing, to “give away all [our] sins to know [Him]”  When we fall short of that standard, by reason of sloth, indifference, or wickedness; when we are evil or envious, selfish, sensual or shallow; we, in a sense at least, crucify Him afresh. And when we try consistently to be our very best, when we care for and serve others, when we overcome selfishness with love, when we place the welfare of others above our own, when we bear each other’s burdens and “mourn with those that mourn,” when we “comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and … stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places”  then we honor Him and draw from His power and become more and more like Him, growing “brighter and brighter,” if we persist, “until the perfect day” Voice cannot tell nor tongue proclaim the fulness of Christ’s ineffable example. In the words of John the Beloved, “And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written” I finish where I began, with Christ’s majestic words to Pilate: “For this cause came I into the world.” How grateful we all should be that He came, two millennia ago, to atone for our sins and set the example for our lives. We proclaim that truth of truths in boldness to all the world. I testify to you that He will return again as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, with healing in His wings, to set His people free (see “Come, O Thou King of Kings,”  no. 59). In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I speak to our children and our youth and ask that you tell your parents and grandparents to sit quietly and not disturb us for a few minutes while we talk.I want to pass to you something I learned from my brother which has been like a shield and a protection to me. I have spoken of it before, but not in the detail that I will today.I graduated from flight training and received my silver wings two days before my 20th birthday. Later I was stationed at Langley Field, Virginia, as copilot on a selected B-24 bomber crew trained to use a new secret weapon—radar.My brother, Colonel Leon C. Packer, was stationed at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. A much decorated B-24 pilot, he became a brigadier general in the Air Force.While I was at Langley Field, the war in Europe ended, and so we were ordered to the Pacific. I spent a few days with Leon in Washington before shipping out for combat.He told me of things he had learned under fire. He flew from North Africa on raids over southern Europe; very few of those planes returned.On April 16, 1943, he was captain of a B-24 bomber returning to England after a raid in Europe. His plane, the  was heavily damaged by flak and dropped out of formation.Then they were alone and came under heavy attack from fighters.His one-page account of that experience says: “Number three engine was smoking and the prop ran away. Number four fuel line was shot out. Right aileron cables and stabilizer cables were shot out. Rudders partially locked. Radio shot out. Extremely large holes in the right wing. Flaps shot out. Entire rear part of the fuselage filled with holes. Hydraulic system shot out. Tail turret out.”A history of the Eighth Air Force, published just two years ago, gives a detailed account of that flight written by one of the crew.With one engine on fire, the other three lost power. They were going down. The alarm bell ordered that they bail out. The bombardier, the only one able to get out, parachuted into the English Channel.The pilots left their seats and made their way toward the bomb bay to bail out. Suddenly Leon heard an engine cough and sputter. He quickly climbed back to his seat and coaxed enough power from the engines to reach the coast of England. Then the engines failed, and they crashed.The landing gear was shorn off on the brow of a hill; the plane plowed through trees and crumbled. Dirt filled the fuselage.Amazingly, though some were terribly wounded, all aboard survived. The bombardier was lost, but he probably saved the lives of the other nine. When smoke poured from the engines and a parachute appeared, the fighters stopped their attack.That was not the only time Leon had crash-landed.As we visited, he told me how he was able to hold himself together under fire. He said, “I have a favorite hymn”—and he named it—“and when things got rough I would sing it silently to myself, and there would come a faith and an assurance that kept me on course.”He sent me off to combat with that lesson.In the spring of 1945 I was able to test that lesson Leon had taught me those months before.The war in the Pacific ended before we reached the Philippines, and we were ordered to Japan.One day we flew out of Atsugi airfield near Yokohama in a B-17 bomber bound for Guam to pick up a beacon light.After nine hours in the air, we let down through the clouds to find ourselves hopelessly lost. Our radio was out. We were, as it turned out, in a typhoon.Flying just above the ocean, we began a search pattern. In that desperate situation, I remembered the words of my brother. I learned that you can pray and even sing without making a sound.After some time we pulled up over a line of rocks jutting out of the water. Could they be part of the chain of the Mariana Islands? We followed them. Soon Tinian Island loomed ahead, and we landed with literally seconds of fuel in the tank. As we headed down the runway, the engines one by one stopped.I learned that both prayer and music can be very silent and very personal.Now, while that experience was dramatic,  when I faced the same temptations you young people and children face now.As the years passed I found that, while not easy, I could control my thoughts if I made a place for them to go. You can replace thoughts of temptation, anger, disappointment, or fear with better thoughts—with music.I love the sacred music of the Church. The hymns of the Restoration carry an inspiration and a protection.I know also some music is spiritually destructive; it’s bad and dangerous! Young people, leave it alone!I know as well why Leon counseled his children, “Remember, the flak is always the heaviest closer to the target.”Thoughts are talks we hold with ourselves. Do you see why the scriptures tell us to “let virtue garnish [thy] thoughts unceasingly” and promise us that if we do, our “confidence [shall] wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon [our] soul[s] as the dews from heaven” and then “the Holy Ghost shall be [our] constant companion.”“The Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.”Young people, the voice of the Spirit is felt rather than heard. You can learn when you are very young how the Holy Ghost works.The scriptures are full of help on how good can influence your mind and evil control you, if you let it. That struggle will never end. But remember this:When you learn to control your thoughts, you will be safe.One man I know does this: Whenever an unworthy thought tries to enter his mind, he brushes his thumb against his wedding ring. That breaks the circuit and for him becomes an almost automatic way to close out unwanted thoughts and ideas.I can’t refrain from telling you one other thing about that visit with my brother in Washington. He was to take a B-25 bomber to Texas to pick up something and return to Washington the next day. I went with him. That was the only time we flew together.Many years later I was honored by Weber State University, where we both had graduated. He had been a student body officer during his college days. Because I would be in South America, he agreed to attend the banquet and accept the award in my behalf.In his acceptance speech he told this story—part of which is true. He said that in Texas we were lined up side by side on the runway ready to take off. He radioed to me and said, “See you upstairs—if you think you can make it!”Then he told them that after I became a General Authority of the Church, once in a while I would check on his behavior and add, “See you upstairs—if you think you can make it!”Well, Leon made it. He is now where I hope one day to be.Young Latter-day Saints, shape up! Face up! Take hold of your lives! Take control of your mind, your thoughts! If you have friends that are not a good influence, make changes, even if you face loneliness, even rejection.If you have already made bad mistakes, there are ways to fix things up, and eventually it will be as though they never happened.Sometimes guilt controls our minds and takes us prisoner in our thoughts. How foolish to remain in prison when the door stands open. Now, don’t tell yourself that sin really doesn’t matter. That won’t help; repentance will.Take charge of yourself. How wonderful to be a young Latter-day Saint in this wonderful, challenging time.Paul told young Timothy, “Let no man despise thy youth.”And Louisa May Alcott was only 14 when she wrote:You can do it—you must do it. Our future depends on you, our children and youth.Well, that’s the advice I pass on to you. Now wake up your parents, and tell them that you have learned a way to help yourself be perfect. Perhaps you won’t be quite perfect, but you can come close enough.I can give you this encouragement: A teacher, trying to explain what a theory is, asked this question: “If you take a letter half the distance to a mailbox and stop, then start over going half the remaining distance and stop, then repeat the process over and over, theoretically will you ever really get to the mailbox?” One bright student said, “No, but you’ll get close enough to mail the letter.”You young people will get close enough to perfection to have a life that is filled with challenges and troubles, with inspiration and happiness and eternal joy.The Lord promised, “I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.”“I will tell you in your  and in your  by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart. …“This is the spirit of revelation. …“Therefore this is thy gift; apply unto it, and blessed art thou, for it shall deliver you.”May God bless you. Already you sang to us, “I know who I am. I know God’s plan.” Someday you can bear your testimony to your grandchildren, and they to theirs, and they to another generation, and another.You look ahead to a long life, to the long, long future before this Church, before the children and youth, before all of us as Latter-day Saints. And I bear witness to you, our youngsters, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. As a grandfather, and as a great-grandfather, I know how much we love you. I tell you how much we love you, how much you are loved in this Church, and invoke the blessings of the Lord upon you as you face the wonderful life before you as young Latter-day Saints. This I do as a servant of the Lord and in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.