Very early in His ministry, two disciples came to Jesus and asked, “Master, … where dwellest thou?” Jesus’ brief yet profound reply, “Come and see,” provides the basis for my few poor remarks today (see “Come and see,” come seeking to know Him, and I promise you will find Him and see Him in His true character as the risen, redeeming Savior of the world. “Come and see,” and you will recognize Him as the Christ of the empty sepulchre, the conqueror of Calvary, who broke the bands of death and rose triumphant from the tomb, to bring immortality to all and eternal life to the faithful. He is the “lamb without blemish and without spot,” foreordained in His messianic role “before the foundation of the world”  “He was wounded for our transgressions [and] bruised for our iniquities: … with his stripes we are healed” “Come and see,” and in your coming lay your burdens at His feet. Give away all your sins that you might see and know Him (see  “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden,” He said, “and I will give you rest.“Take my yoke upon you and learn of me … and ye shall find rest unto your souls”  Come unto Him, and He will take away your sins and heal your soul, though it be sick with sin. He will replace hatred with love and selfishness with service. He will strengthen your shoulders to better bear your burdens and give you new courage and hope for the journey ahead.“Come and see,” and as you do so your eyes will be opened and you will  see, perhaps for the first time, who  are, and who  is. You will come to see yourself as a child of God, of divine parentage, possessed of infinite capacities to grow spiritually and become more like Him. You will come to understand that God “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth”  and you will see all men everywhere as your brothers and all women as your sisters, with all that implies in terms of sibling responsibility. You will see that “he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; … and all are alike unto God” “Come and see,” and as you do so you will find His Church—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a church directed on earth by living prophets, seers, and revelators, but its head is no mortal man, but Jesus, the Lord God Omnipotent Himself. As you “come and see,” you will find a happy people—an optimistic and joyful people—who, while struggling to overcome the usual faults and foibles of humanity, yet strive to be better, to do good to all men, to build the city of God wherein all may dwell together in righteousness. As you “come and see,” you will find a people with a deep and abiding concern for the poor and the needy, a people who reach out a helping hand to aid the widow and orphan, the sick and afflicted, the poor and oppressed. “Come and see” the fruits of gospel living. Taste them for yourself, and you will find them sweet and delicious. As you come to know “that when ye are in the service of your fellow [men] ye are only in the service of your God”  you will seek to wear out your life in the service of the Master.I finish where I began: Jesus’ statement “Come and see” provides both an invitation and a promise to all people everywhere. Come to Him; see Him as King of Kings and Lord of Lords; recognize in Him the great Messiah who will come again with healing in His wings, to set His people free. He will wrap you about in the cloak of His redeeming love, and your life will be changed forever.Of that I testify, as one of His servants, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Christian theologians have long wrestled with the question, What is the destiny of the countless billions who have lived and died with no knowledge of Jesus? With the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ has come the understanding of how the unbaptized dead are redeemed and how God can be “a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also.”While yet in life, Jesus prophesied that He would also preach to the dead. Peter tells us this happened in the interval between the Savior’s Crucifixion and Resurrection. President Joseph F. Smith witnessed in vision that the Savior visited the spirit world and “from among the righteous [spirits] … organized his forces and appointed messengers, clothed with power and authority, and commissioned them to go forth and carry the light of the gospel to them that were in darkness. …“These were taught faith in God, repentance from sin, vicarious baptism for the remission of sins, [and] the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands.”The doctrine that the living can provide baptism and other essential ordinances to the dead, vicariously, was revealed anew to the Prophet Joseph Smith. He learned that the spirits awaiting resurrection are not only offered individual salvation but that they can be bound in heaven as husband and wife and be sealed to their fathers and mothers of all generations past and have sealed to them their children of all generations future. The Lord instructed the Prophet that these sacred rites are appropriately performed only in a house built to His name, a temple.The principle of vicarious service should not seem strange to any Christian. In the baptism of a living person, the officiator acts, by proxy, in place of the Savior. And is it not the central tenet of our faith that Christ’s sacrifice atones for our sins by vicariously satisfying the demands of justice for us? As President Gordon B. Hinckley has expressed: “I think that vicarious work for the dead more nearly approaches the vicarious sacrifice of the Savior Himself than any other work of which I know. It is given with love, without hope of compensation, or repayment or anything of the kind. What a glorious principle.”Some have misunderstood and suppose that deceased souls “are being baptised into the Mormon faith without their knowledge” or that “people who once belonged to other faiths can have the Mormon faith retroactively imposed on them.” They assume that we somehow have power to force a soul in matters of faith. Of course, we do not. God gave man his agency from the beginning. “The dead who repent will be redeemed, through obedience to the ordinances of the house of God,” but only if they accept those ordinances. The Church does not list them on its rolls or count them in its membership.Our anxiety to redeem the dead, and the time and resources we put behind that commitment, are, above all, an expression of our witness concerning Jesus Christ. It constitutes as powerful a statement as we can make concerning His divine character and mission. It testifies, first, of Christ’s Resurrection; second, of the infinite reach of His Atonement; third, that He is the sole source of salvation; fourth, that He has established the conditions for salvation; and, fifth, that He will come again.