Do you remember the song which begins, “I think when I read that sweet story of old, when Jesus was here among men, how he called little children like lambs to his fold; I should like to have been with him then”? (“I Think When I Read That Sweet Story,”  56). Try to imagine what it would have been like to have Jesus place His hands on your head and bless you as the scriptures say He did when He was on earth.Think of being able to actually be near the Savior. Imagine being loved and healed and blessed and guided by Him as they were then. When He was on the earth the members of His Church loved Him, they depended on Him, and they followed Him. You can imagine how saddened they were at the prospect of Him leaving them, but He promised: “I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever. … The Comforter … is the Holy Ghost”  He then gave them the priceless gift of the Comforter to be their companion after He was gone.You too are loved by the Lord, just as were the disciples of old. You are loved more than you will ever know. He wants you to be successful in your life’s mission! You don’t have to face the experiences of this life alone, nor have you been sent here to fail.For this reason a holy gift was given to you at the time of your baptism and confirmation, when hands were placed on your head and you were told, “Receive the Holy Ghost.” It is almost as if your Father in Heaven gave you a gift to celebrate your official entrance into His kingdom on earth. The Holy Spirit can be with you always and guide you back to Him, but in order to enjoy the benefits of this holy gift, you must truly receive it, and then you must use it in your life. How sad it would be to be given such a precious gift and then set it aside and never use it. I would like to talk to you about just three of the things the Holy Ghost can do. He can comfort, guide, and testify.First, let’s focus on the comforting power of the Holy Ghost. When I was just a young girl, I became seriously ill. Each day the illness became increasingly severe. Nothing the doctor recommended helped. At that time the dreaded disease of polio was raging in almost epidemic proportions in the land. It was taking the lives of many, and those who didn’t die were often left crippled. Polio was everyone’s worst fear in those days.One night my illness became critical, and my father and grandfather administered to me using consecrated oil, and through the power of the holy Melchizedek Priesthood, which they held worthily, they called upon God for healing, help, guidance, and comfort. And then my parents took me to a doctor in another town who immediately sent us to Salt Lake City—two and one-half hours away—with the admonition to hurry. I overheard the doctor whisper that he was certain it was polio.When we finally arrived at the hospital in Salt Lake, there were medical personnel waiting for us. They grabbed me from my parents’ arms and whisked me away. Without a word of good-bye or explanation, we were separated. I was all alone, and I thought I was going to die.Following the painful diagnostic procedures, including a spinal tap, they took me to a hospital isolation room, where I would stay all by myself with the hope that I would not infect anyone else, for indeed I did have polio.I remember how very frightened I was. It was dark and I was so sick and so alone. But my parents had taught me to pray. I got on my knees, and I knelt beside the railing in the criblike bed and asked Heavenly Father to bless me. I was crying, I remember. Heavenly Father heard my prayer even though I was only a child. He did. Heavenly Father sent His comforting power, which enveloped me in quiet love. I felt the power of the Holy Ghost, and I was not alone.Let me tell you a second experience. I know of a precious young woman who needs comfort because of a heartache in her life. She is worried about her family situation and the disharmony between her parents. It is sad and very troubling to her and to her brothers and sisters. She is the oldest child and wonders what she can do about this serious problem in their family. Maybe you find yourself in a similar situation. Although there is no solution that is easy and there is no one formula that will work for everyone with a heartache or a concern, there is One who cares very much about your situation, and He knows what you should do. That is our Father in Heaven. He cares as much about your life as if He were right here with you and could speak with you face-to-face. He knows the feelings of this girl’s heart, and He knows the feelings of your heart as well. To bless you, the gift of peace that the Holy Spirit brings has been given to you. Jesus said: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid”  Young women, pray for comfort, and that gift will come to you.My second point is, the Holy Spirit has the power to guide. A 15-year-old girl felt that she needed to find new friends. Have you ever felt that way? She writes, “Now, I don’t know if you have ever had to change friends, but it honestly was the hardest thing I have ever had to do.” She decided to put her problem in the hands of the Lord, and she also counseled with her parents. She says that after several months “she wanted to just give up.” One afternoon she was casually talking to her seminary teacher, and she confided her problem to him. Then he said, “I really don’t know why I am asking you this, but do you happen to know these girls?” This girl answered with a yes. And then he said, “Have you ever thought about being friends with them?”“I told him that there was no way that I could fit in with them. He then asked me if he could talk to one of the girls. I decided I would let him, if he promised not to embarrass me.“Well, that next day I received a phone call from one of the girls. Now, you have to understand that this girl was on student council, and I hate to use the term, but she was ‘extremely popular.’ She asked if I would like to go to the basketball game with her that night. That night was one of the funnest, most peaceful nights of my life. The next day at school, she introduced me to two other girls. We all instantly became friends. This event has changed me.”She concludes by saying, “I don’t know about you, but I would much rather have the Lord, who knows the outcome of everything, direct my life than me, who just sees things as they are at the time. He is right by our side, walking us through life, even when we feel so alone” (letter on file in the Young Women office).The Lord promises us that “because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the visitation of the Holy Ghost, which Comforter filleth with hope and perfect love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer” Your Heavenly Father will help you find the right path as you seek His guidance. Remember though, after you pray you must get off your knees and start doing something positive; head in the right direction! He will send people along the way who will assist you, but you must be doing your part as well. By the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, you can be guided in your trip through life.Point number three—the Holy Ghost is also a testifier. This Holy Spirit can help you really understand deep down inside the most important truth ever known—that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world and that because of Him every one of us who ever lived will one day live again. And because of Him we can repent of wrongdoing and get on the path that leads us back to our Heavenly Father. That is what the Atonement is. The Holy Spirit will testify of that truth to our hearts as we seek to know, and He testifies to others as we bear our testimony of these truths to them.Elder Jeffrey R. Holland teaches that when we bear our testimony to others, they “are not only hearing our testimony of Christ, but they are hearing echoes of other, earlier testimonies, including their own testimony of Him,” for they were among the valiant who chose Christ and chose to follow Him over Satan in the premortal life. Elder Holland says, “When they hear others bear that witness of [Christ’s] saving mission, it has a familiar feeling; it brings an echo of truth they themselves already know.” Furthermore, when you bear testimony of Christ’s mission, “you invoke the power of God the Father and the Holy Ghost” (see “Missionary Work and the Atonement,” Mar. 2001, 11–12). In Moroni chapter 10, verse 5  we are promised that “by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.” My dear young sisters, work to gain a testimony of Christ’s mission. It will come to you by the power of the Holy Ghost. Then share your testimony and bear it often.The Holy Spirit is a comforter, a guide, a testifier. What a remarkable and holy member of the Godhead. And you have the right to His influence and inspiration! How blessed and loved you are! Now, because you have been given so much, you too must give. And so tonight, with this in mind, we would like to make a very special request of you. It is an invitation, really, and we hope you will accept it, and we hope you will act upon it. Are you ready? This is the invitation:Will you reach out and bring one other young woman into full activity in the Church this coming year? Surely each one of you knows of a girl who is less active or a recent convert or who is not a member. We are asking you to reach out and share the gospel of Jesus Christ with one other young woman so that she can also enjoy the sweet blessings of heaven that we have spoken of tonight.Think of how many lives would be blessed, how many young women could be comforted and guided and have stronger testimonies. This year there are over one-half million young women in the Church. Just think, if each one of you will accept this invitation to reach out and bring in just one, next year there will be twice as many active young women! Let the Holy Spirit guide you in your effort. Your parents and your leaders will also help you know what to do and how to do it. We will be eager to learn of your experiences and your successes. In my message to you I did not use a story to illustrate the third point of this talk, which was to testify, because this story will be yours to write as you accept our invitation. I hope that you will begin that story tonight.I began with a song reminding us of the days when the Savior lived on earth among men. I now conclude with the words of a hymn reminding us that though He has gone from our view, our Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, still lives to bless us with His love: “He lives to silence all my fears. He lives to wipe away my tears. He lives to calm my troubled heart. He lives all blessings to impart” (“I Know That My Redeemer Lives,” no. 136). I testify that He does so through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. I pray that we will receive and use this sacred gift from God, in the holy name of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.How many of you have ever wanted to develop a new talent? Have you ever taken piano or soccer lessons? Tonight I want to talk to you about developing a talent—not just any talent, but one very special talent I bet you have never even thought about. I would like to talk to you about developing your talent for spirituality.Did you know that spirituality is a talent? Elder Bruce R. McConkie of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles once said, “Above all talents … , chief among all endowments—stands the talent for spirituality” ( [1982], 234). Spirituality is learning how to listen to the Spirit and then letting it govern our lives.So how do we learn to listen to the Spirit? Well, first of all, we need to understand what the Spirit is. Second, we’ll look at young women who have learned how to recognize the Spirit. As members of the Church, we are given two spiritual gifts: the Light of Christ given to all men at birth and the special gift of the Holy Ghost given after our baptism. It allows us “to live by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is the power of revelation, and … testimony” (Bruce R. McConkie,  ed. Mark L. McConkie [1989], 93). Once we know what the Spirit is, how do we recognize it when we feel it? That’s the hardest part.When I was 14, I remember realizing what the Spirit was for the very first time. I loved going to church, especially sacrament meeting. I always felt so warm and peaceful. This was the Spirit. I’m not sure I knew how important it was. I just knew it made me feel good. As an adult, I’ve learned that it not only makes us feel good, it teaches and testifies and cleanses us from sin. It can warn us of danger and help us remember things.Some young women struggle to identify the Spirit. One girl wrote: “I haven’t really had any experiences with the Holy Ghost, and that’s mostly my fault for not living like I should. But I’m trying harder, and hopefully I will have a chance soon to feel the [comforting influence of the] Holy Ghost” (letter on file in the Young Women office).These feelings are normal. This young woman may not know it, but the Holy Ghost is giving her a desire to feel His influence. The Spirit doesn’t always give us warm, fuzzy feelings. Most of the time, the voice of inspiration is a quiet voice, a still, small voice.I remember what the Savior said to the faithful Nephites when He visited the New World: “I perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my words. … Go … [into] your homes, … ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask … the Father … that ye may understand” The Savior’s words were written for us. It’s OK if we’re weak, as long as we don’t stay weak, as long as we do something about it. Katie is a young woman who did just that. Let me share her story with you.“All my life I have wanted to be good, but I got to the point where I wondered, ‘How can anyone really know if the Church is true?’ I took Moroni’s challenge and for five months prayed and read my scriptures every day. One night I sat on my bed almost in tears, giving up. I decided to pray. I said, ‘Heavenly Father, help me to please just know you are there. I’ve done what Thou hast asked according to the Church and I just really need to know.’ Immediately I felt like someone had wrapped their arms around me. I didn’t hear a loud voice or see an angel, but I felt Heavenly Father telling me, ‘Sweet Katie, you’ve known all along.’ It was like a kind and loving father comforting his little girl” (letter).One of the main functions of the Holy Ghost is to testify of truth. The Spirit testified to Katie that the gospel is true. Katie had paid the price. As the Savior said, she went to her home, studied His words, and prayed—for five whole months. Katie is developing her talent for spirituality. She can use this gift to govern her life.Talents are meant to be shared. As you learn to play the piano, you can bless others with your music. As you develop your talent for spirituality, you can use this gift to bless your family. Did you know you have some responsibility for the happiness in your family? It isn’t just your mom’s or dad’s job to keep the family happy. You can help too. Listen to what Brooke did as she shared her talent for spirituality.“My eight-year-old sister was scared of strangers coming into the house. One night she came into my room, and I tried to explain to her that she wasn’t hearing anyone walking around. I remembered my seminary teacher challenged us to always try to have Heavenly Father’s Spirit with us. So I prayed in my heart that I would get help to not be frustrated. A verse came instantly into my head. I opened the scriptures and told her to read it to me. Then I was bearing testimony to her about the Holy Ghost and how if she wanted peace to get down and pray and the Spirit would come. She gave me a hug and kiss and went off to bed. Then I remembered my 10-year-old sister on the top bunk. She told me she never knew that if you wanted something like that you could pray and the Spirit would bring you peace. I know the Holy Ghost was inspiring me to say that” (letter).There are lots of ways you can bless your family. Brooke did three important things: she bore her testimony, she prayed for her sister, and she was an example to her other sister on the top bunk. This strengthened her own spirituality as well.The Savior invites us to bear testimony. He has said, “Go ye into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature” Many of you love bearing testimony at camp. Well, you don’t have to wait for camp. You can bear your testimony to your family often in simple ways.When my grandchildren visited me and we saw a picture of President Hinckley, I said, “I love President Hinckley. I am so grateful to have a living prophet on the earth today.” It took about 10 seconds, but it taught my grandchildren and helped us feel the Spirit.We bear testimony every single day by our example. Just last month when I was writing this talk, my daughter Jill came home, happily fixed dinner, and washed the dishes. The sweet spirit she carries in her heart blesses our home. I know she loves Jesus by the way she shows her love for me. Another way we show our love for Jesus is through prayer. President Hinckley has said, “Let every family in this Church have prayer together” ( [1997], 216). “Your daily conversations with [H]im will bring peace into your hearts and a joy into your lives that can come from no other source” ( 216).You can help your family remember to pray. Prayer is like an umbrella in the storms of life. When I was a busy mom with seven children at home, I was so grateful when one of my children would say, “We forgot to have family prayer.” Sometimes we would stand by the back door and pray as the children ran off to school. It always strengthened the spirituality in our home.And you can pray for your family. If there is contention, pray for a spirit of peace. No matter what, Heavenly Father will bless you with peace in your heart. Prayer is a miracle; it can help develop the spirituality in your home.Recently, our prophet, President Hinckley, prayed for the youth of the Church. It was a never-to-be-forgotten experience.Can you even imagine how wonderful it would be to know that Jesus prays for us? When He was among the Nephites, “he … knelt upon the earth; and … prayed unto the Father. … No one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father” Could it be with you as it was with the Nephite children? As the Savior ministered to them, “he did loose their tongues, and they did speak … great and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the people” With the power of the Spirit, you too can speak great and marvelous things in your own family.These children “saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about … ; and the angels did minister unto them” You may never see angels descending out of heaven, but I can promise you as you bear testimony and pray in your families, unseen angels will minister to you. As you share your talent for spirituality, you will feel the warmth and power of the Spirit governing your life.The prophets are right. You young women “are part of the greatest generation we have ever had” ( 718). You can be a strong influence on your family. It is a true principle that the Lord operates through families.Now that you have learned how the Spirit works and how you as young women can use it to bless your families, it is our prayer that you will let spirituality become you. Heavenly Father is eager to unleash this great power. May the Spirit bless you as you develop your talent for spirituality, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.