To those who yearn for spiritual truth, some things become self-evident. I bear my witness of these things. God is in His heavens. We mortals are His spirit offspring. Jesus is our Redeemer. Joseph Smith was God’s prophet, and Gordon B. Hinckley is His prophet today. Revelations are pouring forth as in days of old. The kingdom of God, which is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, is once more upon the earth.Satan is real and is on the earth as well. He and his legions are wreaking havoc among the children of men. He speaks no truth, feels no love, promotes no good, and avows nothing but mayhem and destruction.Therefore, I raise this day a “voice of warning.” It is an urgent, sobering reminder and invitation to good men and women everywhere. Listen to these words of revelation received on November 1, 1831:“Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; …“For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion.”The Lord speaks of calamity to befall the inhabitants of the earth. Calamities come in different forms. From time to time the forces of nature convulse, and we are wrenched by their destructive powers.Even more devastating, however, are the calamitous forces of evil which surfeit us continually. In accordance with the prophecy of 1831, peace has now been taken from the earth, and the devil has power over his dominion. His beguiling ways are mesmerizing the people. Temptation is on every hand. Crassness and wrangling have become a way of life. What was once considered awful is now considered tame; what at first titillates, soon captivates and then destroys.This calamity of evil will continue to spread until “the whole world … groaneth … under the bondage of sin.”Therefore, this “voice of warning”:In the midst of these perils, there is a safe harbor. From the revelation cited earlier comes this assurance:“And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world.”There is safety in being a Saint. Members of the Church of Jesus Christ today are known as Latter-day Saints. In addition to being the Lord’s designation of those who belong to His Church, this appellation also serves as His invitation to a better way of life.This became clear to me some years ago when, as a young father, I needed to purchase some temple clothing. Upon entering the store, my attention was drawn to a sign on the counter that read “For Latter-day Saints Only.” The message jolted me. In my mind, an argument ensued.  I asked myself. The years since have tempered my impetuous nature. That argumentative encounter of long ago has become a treasured, defining moment. The experience taught me that just being a member of this Church is not enough. Nor is merely going through the motions of membership sufficient in this day of cynicism and unbelief. The spirituality and vigilance of a saint are required.Being saintly is to be good, pure, and upright. For such persons, virtues are not only declared but lived. For Latter-day Saints, the kingdom of God, or the Church, is not a byline; rather, it is the center and the substance of their lives. Home is “a bit of heaven,” not a hotel. The family is not merely a societal or biological entity. It is the basic eternal unit in God’s kingdom wherein the gospel of Jesus Christ is taught and lived. Indeed, Latter-day Saints diligently strive to become a little better, a little kinder, a little nobler in the daily affairs of life.The Lord sets forth the way in which such progress is made. Said He, “Wherefore, seek not the things of this world but seek ye first to build up the kingdom of God, and to establish his righteousness.”Holding to this course provides Latter-day Saints the means for avoiding the treacherous shoals of worldliness. Living this way enables members of the Church to become the covenant people of the Lord. For our time, we have the following prophetic guidance from President Hinckley on how this can be done. I quote:“We are a covenant people. I have had the feeling that if we could just encourage our people to live by three or four covenants everything else would take care of itself. …“ in which we take upon ourselves the name of the Savior and agree to keep His commandments with the promise in His covenant that He will bless us with His spirit. …“ … The promise … is that He will stay the destroyer and open the windows of heaven and pour down blessings that there will not be room enough to receive them. …“ Sacrifice, the willingness to sacrifice for this the Lord’s work—and inherent in that law of sacrifice is the very essence of the Atonement. … Consecration, which is associated with it, a willingness to give everything, if need be, to help in the on-rolling of this great work. And a covenant of love and loyalty one to another in the bonds of marriage, fidelity, chastity, morality.“ lose their allure as the holy sacrament assumes its proper place in our lives. This covenant enables the faithful to keep themselves “unspotted from the world.” loses its peril through conscientious adherence to the Lord’s tithe. Returning to Him a tithe of all He provides engenders in the giver a love of God above all else. It introduces the obedient to the higher law of giving without command. The fast and fast offerings are embraced and power comes to loose the bands of wickedness, lift heavy burdens, bless the less fortunate, and strengthen family ties. The covenant of tithing weans the faithful from the love of money and its attendant trappings. surrenders to sacrifice, consecration, and the other holy covenants of the temple. As the Redeemer of the world gave all that we might be saved, these covenants allow us to give our all in the accomplishment of Heavenly Father’s purposes for His children.And so, fear not. The things deemed weak by the world overthrow evils that appear so mighty and strong. Righteous men speak in the name of God the Lord. Faith increases in the earth. The everlasting covenants blossom in the lives of Latter-day Saints. The fulness of Christ’s gospel is proclaimed by precept and example unto the ends of the world. And the Lord’s covenant people prepare this earth for His Second Coming. This is our duty. May the Lord sustain us in it is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Granted, brothers and sisters, the world is “in commotion,” but the kingdom is in forward motion as never before! (see   Its distinctiveness is being more sharply defined by adverse trends in the world, where traditional values are not fastened down by the rivets of the Restoration. They are sliding swiftly (see The results are contradictory mixtures, such as boredom and violence. Some simply exist, “having no hope, and without God in the world”  see also  The trek of modern discipleship is taking us through this hostile wilderness, including cultures ambivalent about setting limits and with no brakes!Yes, we have unprecedented mass entertainment and mass communications, but so many lonely crowds. The togetherness of technology is no substitute for the family.Much as I lament the resulting and gathering storms, there can be some usefulness in them. Thereby we may become further tamed spiritually, for “except the Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, … they will not remember him”  The Lord is always quietly refining His faithful people individually anyway, but events will also illuminate God’s higher ways and His kingdom (see Our context is challenging, however. We have many overwhelmed parents, more and more marriages in meltdown, and dysfunctional families. Destructive consequences impact steadily from drugs, violence, and pornography. Truly, “despair cometh … of iniquity”  Since the adversary desireth “that all men might be miserable like unto himself,” his is the plan of misery  see also The valiant among us keep moving forward anyway, because they know the Lord loves them, even when they “do not know the meaning of all things”  As you and I observe the valiant cope successfully with severe and relentless trials, we applaud and celebrate their emerging strength and goodness. Yet the rest of us tremble at the tuition required for the shaping of such sterling character, while hoping we would not falter should similar circumstances come to us!It may be too late to fix some communities, but not to help those individuals and families willing to fix themselves. It is not too late, either, for some to become pioneer disciples in their families and locations, or for individuals to become local peacemakers in a world from which peace has been taken (see  If still others experience a shortage of exemplars, they can become such.While Joshua was able to say, “But as for me and my house, …” some individuals, presently bereft of intact families, nevertheless, can still say, “But as for me, …” and then so live as to become worthy of all the Lord has prepared for them (see  Thus disciples “stand fast”  “hold out faithful to the end”  and “hold on [their] way”  even in a troubled world.However, enduring and submitting are not passive responses at all, but instead are actually more like being braced sufficiently to report for advanced duties, while carrying—meekly and victoriously—bruises from the previous frays.What are a few fingers of scorn now anyway (see  when the faithful can eventually know what it is like to be “clasped in the arms of Jesus”? What are mocking words now, if later we hear those glorious words, “Well done, thou good and faithful servant”? Meanwhile, Paul urges us to “plow in hope” Therefore, desperately needed is longitudinal perspective, the hope of the gospel. Today’s  is then placed in the perspective of our being  tomorrow in God’s plan of happiness (see Since the Lord wants a people “tried in all things”  how specifically will we be tried? He tells us, I will try the faith and the patience of my people (see  Since faith in the timing of the Lord may be tried, let us learn to say not only, “Thy will be done,” but patiently also, “Thy timing be done.”Hope feasts on the words of Christ, “through patience and comfort of the scriptures,” “written for our learning”  and bolstered by “having all these witnesses”  see also  Faith constitutes “the assurance of things hoped for” and the proof of “things not seen”  see also  Therefore, whatever our humble furrow, we are to “plow in hope”  finally developing “a perfect brightness of hope”  see also Yet too many of the partially committed, like Naaman, wait for the Lord to bid them to “do some great thing,” while declining His biddings in small things  When he was humbled and corrected, not only did Naaman’s flesh become like that of a little child, but his heart also (see  Failure to serve the Master in small ways estranges us from Him (see Those, however, who “plow in hope” not only understand the law of the harvest but they also understand what growing seasons are all about. True, those with genuine hope may see their proximate circumstances shaken like a kaleidoscope at times, yet with the “eye of faith” they still see divine design Ultimate hope, of course, is tied to Jesus and the great Atonement, with its free gift of the universal Resurrection and the proffer of God’s greatest gift, eternal life (see    Several scriptures describe the essence of that glorious and rescuing Atonement, including a breathtaking, autobiographical verse confiding how Jesus “would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink”  Since the “infinite atonement” required infinite suffering, the risk of recoil was there!   All humanity hung on the hinge of Christ’s character! Mercifully, He did not shrink but “finished [His] preparations unto the children of men” But Christ’s unique submissiveness has always been in place. Indeed, He has “suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning”  keenly observing His Father all the while: “Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise”  This verse carries intimations of grand things—beyond the beyond.In the agonizing atoning process, Jesus let His will be “swallowed up in the will of the Father”  As sovereigns, choosing to yield to the Highest Sovereign is our highest act of choice. It is the only surrender which is also a victory! The  of the natural man makes possible the  of the whole armor of God, which would not fully fit before! (see Redeeming Jesus also “poured out his soul unto death”  see also   As we on occasion “pour” out our souls in personal pleadings, we are thus emptied, making room for more joy!Another fundamental scripture describes Jesus’ having trodden the winepress of the “fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God”  see also   Others can and should encourage, commend, pray, and comfort, but the lifting and carrying of our individual crosses remains ours to do. Given the “fierceness” Christ endured for us, we cannot expect a discipleship of unruffled easiness. As we seek forgiveness, for example, repentance can be a rough-hewn regimen to bear. By the way, let us not, as some do, mistake the chips we have placed on our own shoulders for crosses!Uniquely, atoning Jesus also “descended below all things, in that he comprehended all things”  see also  How deep that descent into despair and abysmal agony must have been! He did it to rescue us and in order to comprehend human suffering. Therefore, let us not resent those tutoring experiences which can develop our own empathy further (see  A slothful heart will not do, and neither will a resentful heart. So being admitted fully to “the fellowship of his sufferings” requires the full dues of discipleship  see also Moreover, Jesus not only took upon Him our sins to atone for them, but also our sicknesses and aching griefs (see   Hence, He knows personally all that we pass through and how to extend His perfect mercy—as well as how to succor us. His agony was all the more astonishing in that He trod “the wine-press alone” On occasion, the God of heaven has wept (see  One ponders, therefore, the agonies of Jesus’ infinite Atonement and the feelings of the Father—for His Son and for us. There are no instructive, relevant revelations, but our finite, emotional extrapolations come flooding in anyway!If, like the Savior, we do not “shrink,” then we must go with the demanding flow of discipleship, including where the tutoring doctrines of the Master take us. Otherwise, we may walk with Jesus up to a point, but then walk no more with Him (see  Shrinking includes stopping as well as turning back.The more we know of Jesus, the more we will love Him. The more we know of Jesus, the more we will trust Him. The more we know of Jesus, the more we will want to be like Him and to be with Him by becoming the manner of men and women that He wishes us to be (see  while living now “after the manner of happiness” Therefore, with the help of the Holy Ghost, we can glorify Christ by repenting and thereby accessing the blessings of the astonishing Atonement which He provided for us at such a stunning cost! (see  So, brothers and sisters, given what Jesus  are we willing to  the challenges allotted to us? (see  Trembling is sometimes both permissible and understandable.There are many specific ways in which we can liken to ourselves these “essence” scriptures about Jesus and the Atonement, but all are covered under this conceptual canopy: “Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me”  In fact, there is no other way to learn deeply! (see  The infinite Atonement is so vast and universal, but finally, it is so very personal! Mercifully, through the Atonement we can be forgiven and, very importantly, we can know that we have been forgiven—that final, joyous emancipation from error.By utilizing the Atonement, we access the gifts of the Holy Ghost, which “filleth with hope and perfect love”  None of us can afford to be without that needed hope and love in the treks through our Sinais of circumstance!Thus within the discipleship allotted to us, we are to overcome the world (see  to finish the work we personally have been given to do; to be able to partake of a bitter cup without becoming bitter; to experience pouring out our souls; to let our wills increasingly be swallowed up in the will of the Father; to acknowledge—tough though the tutoring trials—that, indeed, “All these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good”  and to plow enduringly to the end of the furrow—all the while glorifying Him and using the matchless gifts He has given us, including, one day, “all” that He has In the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen!