In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith sometime in June 1830, we are told of our Heavenly Father’s declared intention: “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.” According to this decree, the Father’s desire is to provide all of us with the opportunity to receive a fulness of joy, even the fulness that He possesses in His perfected and glorified state.During these momentous latter days, we declare that God our Eternal Father lives. We testify that we existed in His presence, prior to this life, as His spirit children. During our premortal existence, we were tutored in conditions which provided us with the opportunity to develop our talents and abilities. In that blessed, premortal abode, we were “left to choose good or evil.” Alma states that we chose good by exercising “great faith” and performing “good works.” Thus, we kept our first estate, while our Father, in turn, foreordained us to receive certain privileges in this lifetime.Likewise, latter-day revelation reveals that our Heavenly Father ordained a great plan of happiness for all of His spirit children who had kept their first estate. It embraced the prospect that we could one day become like our Father in Heaven and possess all of the attributes and rights He now enjoys. The Apostle Peter reminded the Saints that our Lord’s “divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness,” so that “by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature.” Peter’s statement may be considered bold, and we admit that it would take a lifetime, and more, to accomplish; nevertheless, his thoughts find resonance in the Savior’s charge, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.”The Father’s plan also required all who had kept their first estate to be tried and tested in a mortal or second estate. In this environment, we are required to act for ourselves and prove to ourselves and to God whether we would keep all of His commandments and overcome sin and opposition.Since the Fall of Adam and because of the nature of mortal mankind, man developed a predisposition to violate the laws of God and thereby become enslaved to the demands of justice. Nevertheless, because of our Heavenly Father’s foreknowledge and through the great plan of happiness, He devised a plan of mercy. It furnished a way for the exacting requirements of justice to be appeased through an infinite Atonement.Jesus Christ, as the chosen of the Father from the beginning, possessed all the qualifications and attributes required to harmonize the laws of justice and mercy through His Atonement.The Atonement, King Benjamin taught, allows man to put off the natural man as we yield to the enticings of the Holy Spirit. Consequently, it is our testimony that all who come unto Christ by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel are able to exercise faith unto “everlasting salvation and eternal life.”We also testify that compliance with all of the conditions of the great plan of happiness, after the Great Apostasy, was not possible until our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, reestablished the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith.Our beloved prophet, President Gordon B. Hinckley, declared, “The Prophet Joseph’s account of these events is true, that the Father bore witness of the divinity of His Son, that the Son instructed the boy prophet, and that there followed a train of events which led to the organization of ‘the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth.’”It is the heartfelt desire of all the faithful to keep their second estate. We are not left alone to find our way back home. The Lord has set up His kingdom on the earth wherein the elect of God can be gathered.In the Lord’s loving care, He has provided us with all of the essential resources required to forge our way through the many pitfalls placed before us by the evil one.These indispensable resources include the ordinances and covenants of the gospel, in which the power of the Atonement is manifest. We also have the holy scriptures, which provide us with a standard to discern truth from error.Importantly, we live in a blessed day in which the Lord has placed His watchmen, even the living apostles and prophets, in our midst. They hold all the necessary keys and authority which are essential to administering the ordinances of salvation and exaltation.Above all, as baptized members of the church of Christ, we have the incomparable gift of the Holy Ghost. The Savior, on the eve of His suffering for our sins, told His disciples, that the “Spirit … will guide you into all truth.”John the Revelator, in heavenly vision, saw the fulfillment of our Father’s plan and recorded the condition of those who had come out of great tribulation and had washed their robes white in the blood of the Lamb. He saw how they who had overcome the world stood before the throne of God and served Him in His temple. The Lord was in their midst, while the faithful hungered and thirsted no more, and God wiped away all the tears from their eyes.We need not fear but with faith follow our Heavenly Father’s great plan of happiness. Our call to all is to come and receive of the grace and mercy of the Lord, for He is mighty to save and will never forsake us!May the Lord bless us in this great endeavor, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.On one occasion, the Savior encountered a great multitude of people who were listening to a discussion between His disciples and the scribes. He then asked the scribes, “What question ye with them?”A certain man, kneeling down to Him, answered that he had asked the disciples to cast an evil spirit out of his son, but “they could not.” The father begged Him, saying, “But if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us.“Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.“And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.”The Savior then rebuked the evil spirit and charged it to “come out of him, and enter no more into him. And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him.”All of us have come face-to-face with difficult, even desperate hours, when with tears we have fallen on our knees and pled as did this father, “Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.”Just as the Savior stood ready to help this father whose son was “sore vexed,” so is He ready to help our unbelief today so that with faith we can survive our mortal struggles and “come off conqueror.”Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is the first principle of the gospel and is more than mere belief. Faith is a “hope for things which are not seen, which are true.” “Faith always moves its possessor to … physical and mental action.” “To have faith in Jesus Christ means to have such trust in him that we obey whatever he commands. There is no faith where there is no obedience.”Faith comes from hearing the word of God and is a spiritual gift. Faith increases when we not only hear, but act on the word of God as well, in obedience to the truths we have been taught.Mary’s reply to the angel’s announcement provides an excellent example. Mary was told by the angel Gabriel: “Thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest.” Mary then obediently said to Gabriel, “Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word.”On another occasion, “Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.“And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.“And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.”After the Savior’s Resurrection, Peter and other disciples went “a fishing.” However, “that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.” He told them to “cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.”We find similar faith-developing obedience in the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Following the angel Moroni’s all-night-long visits with him in September 1823, Joseph went to work in the morning with his father. Having been awake nearly all night, he “found [his] strength so exhausted as to render [him] entirely unable” to perform “the necessary labors of the day.” His father told him to return home, and he “started with the intention of going to the house; but … [his] strength entirely failed [him], and [he] fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anything.” When he awoke, he “looked up, and beheld the same messenger standing over [his] head, surrounded by light as before.” Joseph was commanded to “go to [his] father and tell him of the vision and commandments which [he] had received.” Although understandably weary, he obediently “returned to [his] father in the field, and rehearsed the whole matter to him.” His father replied “that it was of God, and told [him] to go and do as commanded.” Exhausted but obedient, Joseph then “left the field, and went to the place where the messenger had told [him] the plates were deposited, a journey of several miles.”Each day we decide what we will do and what we will not do, among myriad alternatives. When we choose to obey the commandments cheerfully as our first priority, neither murmuring about nor measuring the things He commands, we become the handmaids of the Lord and fishers of men and cast our nets on the right side of our own ships. We simply go and do the things the Lord has commanded, even when we are weary, trusting that He will help us to do exactly as He asks. As we do so, the Lord helps our unbelief, and our faith becomes powerful, vibrant, and unshakable. The Prophet Joseph wrote from Liberty Jail, “Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance [or faith], to see the salvation of God, and for his arm to be revealed.”No matter who we are or where we live, there is much about our daily lives that is routine and repetitive. As we go about this dailiness, we must be deliberate about doing the things that matter most. These must-do things include making room first for the minimum daily requirements of faithful behavior: true obedience, humble prayer, serious scripture study, and selfless service to others. No other daily vitamins strengthen the muscles of our faith as fast as these actions. We also must remember that genuine fasting fosters strong faith. This is especially important as we faithfully seek to fix deeply embedded character flaws which go “not out but by prayer and fasting.”Developing faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is a step-by-step, line-upon-line, and precept-upon-precept process. We promote the process of strengthening our faith when we do what is right—increased faith always follows as a consequence. If we exercise our faith daily with prayer, study, and obedience, the Savior helps our unbelief, and our faith becomes a shield to “quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.” Alma taught that we may “withstand every temptation of the devil, with [our] faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.” However, we can neither ignore nor reject the essential ingredients of faith and then expect to reap a rich harvest.We see countless examples of faith developing in Church members today. As young men, young women, and mature couples accept calls to serve missions, as couples prepare themselves in virtue to be married in the holy temple, as parents train up children in the way they should go, they strengthen their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. As we keep the Sabbath day holy, magnify callings, pay tithes and offerings, welcome new members into Church circles, and invite friends and neighbors to learn gospel truths, we strengthen our faith. When we choose to abandon our sins and repent willingly, and when we fall to our knees in prayer in good times as well as in turbulent times, we develop strong faith.We then find occurring in our own lives an experience described in the Book of Mormon: “Nevertheless they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of their hearts, which sanctification cometh because of their yielding their hearts unto God.”I know that the Savior lives and that He helps our unbelief. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.