After 34 years in the Church Educational System, my wife and I decided about three years ago to retire and set our feet on some different paths in life. At that point we began to make plans. We changed our residence to be closer to children and grandchildren. I began to develop what I thought were some wonderful projects. Some were absolutely brilliant, I thought. And then one of those pivotal moments in life happened.It was our privilege at that time to be living across the street from Elder F. Enzio Busche, now an emeritus Seventy, and his wife. One day Elder Busche taught our high priests quorum, and he cited a scripture in the book of Alma where Alma longs to have the voice of an angel. Then Alma immediately repents of those feelings, and in verse four makes a remarkable statement. He suggests that we have to be careful what we desire, for the Lord grants unto us the desires of our heart. And then came what was to me almost a stunning statement: “Whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction.” God will grant unto us, according to our will, the things which we desire (see I went home that day—and it’s not that I felt any of my desires were wrong—but in that moment I realized that those desires were  That day I began to try to let the Lord know that what I’d like to do is fulfill  desires. Even then, I thought I really meant it, but I came to know that that’s an easy thing to say and a difficult thing to do. As Elder Maxwell said yesterday, only when we truly yield our hearts to God can He begin to accelerate the purification and the sanctification and the perfecting process (see  We have found in the three years that have come since that time that the Lord has set our feet on different paths than we expected, and this one is the latest.Just the other day, after President Hinckley called my wife and me, I was reading in the book of Deuteronomy and found a verse in the 12th chapter that came to mean a lot to me. It’s put in the form of a commandment. The Lord says, “Thou shalt rejoice before the Lord thy God in all that thou puttest thine hands unto”  We are grateful for this privilege to rejoice in the Lord at this new opportunity.Since starting on those paths, we have come to learn how truly merciful God is, how deeply He loves us, and how perfectly compelling His love is for us. When I was 16 years old and not smart enough to know very much at all, the Spirit touched my heart and I realized the significance of the woman that you marry. Starting at that time I began to pray that the Lord would find for me the woman who would be my eternal companion. Those prayers were answered, and all that we now enjoy in our family with children and grandchildren is largely responsible to her.I’ve come to know that Jesus is our Christ, that His and the Father’s mercies are infinite and never ending, even when we’re not deserving. I’ve always loved the Prophet Joseph Smith, but it was my privilege to spend about 10 years in an intensive and extensive study of his life, of his writings, of his teachings, and of those who knew and loved him, and I came to know that here is a prophet of prophets, one who was worthy to bring about the Restoration of this last great dispensation. And I’ve come to know with great power that those keys that he restored have continued unbroken to this day and now reside in our living prophet, even Gordon B. Hinckley.Again, we rejoice in this opportunity to serve. We are deeply humbled and greatly honored, and I leave that testimony with you in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brothers and sisters, there is a saying: “Welcome the opportunity that takes you beyond your ordinary self if you would grow.” And I’m sure I’m going to grow. May I express our thanks to Sister Smoot, Sister Dew, and Sister Jensen for the great service they’ve given to all of us as members of the Church. I express my gratitude to my counselors, Kathy and Anne, for their willingness to serve. They are women of faith.I am so grateful this day for my mother and father, for the teachings they gave me, for their love, for teaching me to work. I do know how to work. I am grateful for my husband. Jim is a wonderful companion. I love him, and I’m grateful for his support. He’s a man of integrity. I’m grateful for sons and for their wives, who have helped them become better men. I’m grateful for grandchildren. The other evening we drove down to the home of one of our sons to tell him about this calling. They had their children tucked in bed. I said to Brett and Angie, “I’ve been called to be the general Relief Society president.” And Brett said, “You? The president of the Relief Society for the whole Church?” Aren’t your children wonderful? He said what I have been feeling for the past few weeks.Yesterday when we arrived home, I had a fax from our son David and his wife, Jennifer, in Belgium. David said, “Mother, I know you can do it. You may not remember, but you used to have a scripture on the fridge that said, ‘As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord’  He said, “I was in and out of the fridge a lot, and I knew that you and Dad meant that.” I’m so grateful for our children.I’m grateful to the women of the Church who have mentored me, who have loved me, who have taught me, who have believed in me. I’m grateful for the missionaries in the England London South Mission, for their goodness, for the way they keep their covenants. I’m grateful for the British Saints who loved me and helped me be part of that great land.Now, brothers and sisters, I do not know why I was called, but I do know that I was called. I pledge to you my love, my support, and I ask that you be patient as I learn.I invite the young adult women of the Church, wherever you are, to look at Relief Society and know that you are needed there, that we love you, that together we can have a grand time. Please come and be with us.As Wallace Stegner wrote of the Mormons, “Their women were incredible.” And they are today! I know that the Lord loves the women of the Church. If I could have one thing happen for every woman in this Church, it would be that they would feel the love of the Lord in their lives daily. I have felt the love of the Lord in my life, and I am so thankful for that. I’m thankful for the peace that I have felt.I testify of my Savior Jesus Christ. I know He lives. I have felt His love; I have felt His forgiveness. I think of a sister missionary as she departed the mission. In her final testimony she said, “I came on a mission to let Heavenly Father know I loved Him, to express appreciation to Him, and to pay Him back,” and she said, “I’m leaving more in His debt than I ever was before I came.”I give testimony of the power of a prophet of God, President Gordon B. Hinckley, and I’m thankful for him and for his love and for all prophets who have had confidence in me. I testify of these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.