My dear brothers and sisters, here in Salt Lake City and around the world, it is good to be with you. I extend my love and my greetings to Elder Bednar and Elder Robert Oaks in their new callings. To describe my inner feelings, I would say I am calm as a hurricane, or even better, I am happy and frightened. In one sentence, I need your prayers; I need the Lord.Having received a call and been given a sacred trust that will completely influence my life forever, my feelings are tender and my emotions often close to tears.I have a great sense of inadequacy, and I have felt a sweet agony from a deep and often painful examination of my soul during the many hours which have passed day and night since Friday morning this week.After President Gordon B. Hinckley extended the call to me to become an Apostle and a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, I left my busy office to share this totally unexpected news with my beloved Harriet. At this most important time in our lives, we have cherished the quiet sacredness of our home as a place of refuge and of defense. How grateful I am for my wife, for the loving comfort and strong support she has been throughout my life. Next to the gift of life itself and the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, Harriet is the greatest blessing which has come into my life. I wish to express my deep love and appreciation to our children and our grandchildren for their prayers and love, but most of all for their example. Our children and grandchildren live in Germany and are building the kingdom of God in our homeland. The joys of the gospel of Jesus Christ and its eternal blessings bridge over the distance of many thousands of miles and bring happiness and comfort into our lives.I express my gratitude and love to each member of our family and to a large number of friends and teachers along the way who teach and serve and lift to make us who we are.I express my deepest feelings of love and gratitude to the members of the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve for their love and kindness. In the closing of my stewardship as one of the seven Presidents of the Seventy, I want to express my love and admiration to the Seventy. They are truly especial witnesses of Christ. Instead of any others they are the men the Twelve call upon when they need assistance. I give thanks to those dedicated men who are giving so much of their time, talents, and spiritual power to build the kingdom. Words cannot describe how I love the 10 1/2 years I had the privilege and joy to serve as a Seventy. I will cherish the example and friendship of the members of the Quorums of the Seventy forever.I want to thank each and every member of the Church throughout the world for your faithfulness despite temptations; for your love; for your dedication to the principles and doctrine of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ; for your willingness to follow the living prophet in making the wards and branches grow; for your sacrifices in giving of your time and energy and your emotional, spiritual, and temporal substance. Thank you for paying an honest tithing and not neglecting the poor and the lonely. I have seen the face of Christ in your faces, in your deeds, and in your exemplary lives. You are a modern miracle.I thank you for sustaining, with your hand and with your heart, the general officers of the Church. Yesterday we sustained the general leadership of the Church according to the principle of common consent. Not one of these Church leaders is seeking such a position, nor are they declining such a call, because they know it comes by revelation from God.We are grateful for your prayers, and we pray for you. We love you, and we need your love. We sustain you, and we need your willingness to serve the Lord wherever you are and to whatever position you are called. In the Lord’s Church, every calling is important.President Gordon B. Hinckley said: “We are here to assist our Father in His work and His glory, ‘to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man’  Your obligation is as serious in your sphere of responsibility as is my obligation in my sphere” (“This Is the Work of the Master,”  May 1995, 71). And the President asked us to reach out to others and bless the lives of those around us. He said: “Let there be cultivated an awareness in every member’s heart of his own potential for bringing others to a knowledge of the truth. … Let him pray with great earnestness about it” (“Find the Lambs, Feed the Sheep,”  July 1999, 120;  May 1999, 106).My life was eternally blessed by one choice member who reached out more than 50 years ago. Some days after World War II, my grandmother was standing in line for food when an elderly single sister with no family of her own invited her to sacrament meeting in Zwickau, East Germany. My grandmother and my parents accepted the invitation. They went to church, felt the Spirit, were uplifted by the kindness of the members, and were edified by the hymns of the Restoration. My grandmother, my parents, and my three siblings were all baptized. I had to wait two years because I was only six. How grateful I am for a spiritually sensitive grandmother, teachable parents, and a wise, white-haired, elderly single sister who had the sweet boldness to reach out and follow the Savior’s example by inviting us to “come and see” (see  Her name was Sister , which translates in English to “Sister Eternal.” I will be eternally grateful for her love and example.With these tender feelings of gratitude for all who have influenced my life in past years, I commit myself to the future. My heart and mind are filled with joy that for the rest of my life I will have the opportunity to “talk of Christ, … rejoice in Christ, … preach of Christ, [and] prophesy of Christ”  all this as a special witness of our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ (see Realizing my weaknesses, I gain great comfort from the instructions given by the Lord. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read:“The fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. …“And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed; …“And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge” And in the Book of Mormon we read:“I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments … save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them” And in the Old Testament we receive comfort:“The Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt … be turned into another man,” “God gave him another heart,” and “God is with thee” I trust these wonderful promises. I therefore pledge to you, to these my Brethren, and to the Lord that I will live to be worthy to know the will of the Lord and to act accordingly.God our Heavenly Father knows us by name. Jesus Christ lives; He is the Messiah; He loves us. The Atonement of Jesus Christ is real; it brings immortality to all and opens the door to eternal life.The gospel of Jesus Christ is again on the earth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is true and living.The Book of Mormon is a second witness of Jesus Christ and a manifestation of the truthfulness of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I love the Prophet Joseph. I love President Gordon B. Hinckley, who is the prophet of God and holds all the keys of the kingdom at this time, keys which prophets have held in uninterrupted succession since Joseph Smith.These things I know in my heart and in my mind. And of these things I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Believing in the Savior and His mission is so essential that it is the first principle of the gospel: “Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.” What is faith? In his epistle to the Hebrews in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul taught that “faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” And how do we gain faith? How do we gain evidence of our Savior, whom we have not seen? The scriptures teach us:“To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to  that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world.“To others it is given to  on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful.”From the beginning of time, prophets have  that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, of His mortal mission, and of His Atonement for all mankind. Sacred records give the prophecies of thousands of years, not only of the first coming of our Savior but also of the  Coming—a glorious day that will most assuredly come.If we had lived in the days of these prophets of old, would we have believed on their words? Would we have had faith in the coming of our Savior?In ancient America, Samuel the Lamanite prophesied that on the night of the Savior’s birth “there [would] be great lights in heaven, … insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day.”Many believed Samuel and went to find Nephi, confessed their sins, repented, and were baptized. “And angels did appear unto [them], and did declare unto them glad tidings of great joy.”But for the most part, the Nephites “harden[ed] their hearts” and became blind to the “signs and wonders” of the times. These signs were given so “that [the people] might know that the Christ must shortly come.” But instead of heeding them, the Nephites “depend[ed] upon their own … wisdom, saying: Some things [the believers] may have guessed right, … [but] it is not reasonable that such a being as a Christ shall come.”In those days as in ours, some naysayers, called anti-Christs, convinced others that there was no need for a Savior and His Atonement. When Samuel’s prophecy was finally fulfilled and there was a “day and a night and a day, as if it were one day,” what joy must have filled the hearts of those who had believed in the prophets! “It had come to pass, yea, all things, every whit, according to the words of the prophets. And it came to pass also that a new star did appear, according to the word.”Those who believed on the words of the prophets recognized the Savior throughout His life and ministry and were blessed to follow Him. But sometimes the faith of even the most devoted followers was tested. After the Crucifixion Thomas heard his brethren testify that the Savior had risen from the tomb. But instead of believing their words, Thomas declared, “Except I shall see … , I will not believe.” Later this beloved Apostle was given the opportunity to touch the prints of the nails in the Savior’s hands and confessed, “My Lord and my God.” The Savior then lovingly taught him as He has taught all of us what it means to have faith: “Because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.”Believers on the American continent faced similar tests of faith. As Samuel had prophesied, there were great “thunderings and lightnings,” and darkness covered “the whole earth for the space of three days.” But those who had “received the prophets and stoned them not” did not fear or flee. They recognized this was “the sign [that] had been given concerning [the Savior’s] death” and gathered to the temple, marveling together. And there He appeared to them, saying:“Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.“… I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world. …“And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto them after his ascension into heaven.”Brothers and sisters, the prophecies of Christ’s  coming were fulfilled, “every whit.” As a result, many throughout the world believe that the Savior did come and did live in the meridian of time. But there are still many prophecies yet to be fulfilled! In this and other conferences, we hear living prophets prophesy and testify of Christ’s  Coming. They also witness of the signs and wonders all about us, telling us that Christ will surely come again. Are we choosing to believe their words? Or despite their witnesses and warnings, are we waiting for evidence—are we “walking in darkness at noon-day,” refusing to see by the light of modern prophecy, and denying that the Light of the World will return to rule and reign among us?Throughout the course of my life, I have known many good and generous people who adhere to Christian values. However, some lack faith that He lives, that He is the Savior of the world, and that His Church has been restored to the earth. Because they do not believe in the words of the prophets, they miss the joy of the gospel and its saving ordinances in their lives.I have a dear friend who, one day not long ago in a moment of brotherly tenderness, asked, “Elder Hales, I want to believe. I’ve always wanted to believe, but how do I do it?” This morning I desire to answer that question.The Apostle Paul wrote to the Romans, “Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.” The very fact that you are viewing, listening to, or reading the proceedings of this conference means that you are hearing God’s word. The first step to finding faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is to let His word—spoken by the mouth of His servants, the prophets—touch your heart. But it is not enough merely to let those words wash over you, as if they alone could transform you. We must do our part. Or as the Savior Himself said, “He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.” In other words, hearing requires an active effort. “Faith without works is dead.” It means taking seriously what is taught, considering it carefully, studying it out in our minds. As the prophet Enos learned, it means letting others’ testimonies of the gospel “[sink] deep into [our] heart[s].” Let us review some of the elements of Enos’s profound, faith-building experience:First, Enos heard the gospel truths from his father, just as you are hearing them in your families and in this conference. Second, he let his father’s teachings about “eternal life, and the joy of the saints” sink deep into his heart. Third, he was filled with a desire to know for himself whether these teachings were true and where he himself stood before his Maker. To use Enos’s words, “My soul hungered.” By this intense spiritual appetite, Enos qualified himself to receive the Savior’s promise: “Blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.” Fourth, Enos obeyed the commandments of God, which enabled him to be receptive to the Spirit of the Holy Ghost. Fifth, Enos records, “I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens.” It wasn’t easy. Faith did not come quickly. In fact, Enos characterized his experience in prayer as a “wrestle which [he] had before God.” But faith did come. By the power of the Holy Ghost, he did receive a witness for himself.We cannot find Enos-like faith without our own wrestle before God in prayer. I testify that the reward is worth the effort. Remember the pattern: (1) hear the word of God, spoken and written by His servants; (2) let that word sink deep into your heart; (3) hunger in your soul for righteousness; (4) obediently follow gospel laws, ordinances, and covenants; and (5) raise your voice in mighty prayer and supplication, asking in faith to know that Jesus Christ is our Savior. I promise that if you do these things sincerely and unceasingly, the words Christ spoke to His disciples will be fulfilled in your life: “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.”Once we find the beginnings of our faith in Jesus, our Heavenly Father allows our faith to be strengthened. This occurs in many ways, including through the experience of adversity. An acquaintance of mine recently wrote:“We lost a 2-and-a-half-year-old grandson to leukemia. … My children still haven’t taken his crib down; it will [soon be] 7 years [since he died. It is] hard to have faith. [I] lost a friend [who was] 69. [He] had three different cancers in 10 years, [cancers which] went into remission twice. [First, they found it in his] kidneys, [then his] brain, [and] then [his] lungs. [He] couldn’t fight it any longer. [He] tried everything humanly possible and 6 years ago found faith … but not an extra day, so I guess it’s hard to believe.”This appeal to me for faith was answered as follows: “Your family story of the loss of your grandson to leukemia was touching. Hopefully, you and your children will find peace as you seek answers to the purpose of life. Our faith is acquired through prayer with a sincere desire to draw close to God and trust in Him to bear our burdens and give us answers to life’s unexplained mysteries of the purpose of life: Where did we come from? Why are we here on earth in mortality? And where are we going after our mortal sojourn on earth? All is well with your little one because he died before the age of accountability of eight years of age and he is in the presence of God. Seek faith, and may the blessings of God be with you.”Isn’t it interesting that the one who is suffering often gains faith through suffering and accepts the Lord’s will, “thy will be done,” while family members and caregivers may have a difficult time accepting the tragic outcome and being able to strengthen their faith from the experience. We cannot measure faith by “an extra day.”When the challenges of mortality come, and they come for all of us, it may seem hard to have faith and hard to believe. At these times only faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His Atonement can bring us peace, hope, and understanding. Only faith that He suffered for our sakes will give us the strength to endure to the end. When we gain this faith, we experience a mighty change of heart, and like Enos, we become stronger and begin to feel a desire for the welfare of our brothers and sisters. We pray for them, that they too will be lifted and strengthened through faith on the Atonement of our Savior Jesus Christ.Let us consider a few of these prophetic witnesses of the effects of the Atonement in our lives. As we do I invite you to let them sink deep into your heart and fill whatever hunger and thirsting there may be in your soul.“And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning … , that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed.”And “the Lord showed himself unto [the brother of Jared], and said: … Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. … In me shall all mankind have life, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name.”Abinadi witnessed: “I would that ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people. … Yea, even so he shall be led, crucified, and slain … ; giving [him] power to make intercession for the children of men … , having redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.”And finally, Joseph Smith. As a 14-year-old boy, he exercised unwavering faith and followed the prophet James’s direction to “ask of God.” Because of Joseph’s prophetic calling, God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, appeared to him and gave him instructions. How glorious was this First Vision to the first prophet of this last dispensation! Sixteen years later in the Kirtland Temple, Joseph was visited again by the Savior and testified: “We saw the Lord. … And his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father.”To my dear friend and all those whose souls are hungering for faith, I invite you “to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written.” Let their witness that the Savior gave His life for you sink deep into your heart. Seek a witness of the truth through the Holy Ghost in prayer, and then see your faith strengthened as you joyfully meet the challenges of this mortal life and prepare for eternal life.Jesus Christ did come. He did live. And He will come again. This I know and give my special witness and testimony, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.