Recently, a participant on a radio program questioned the international appeal of the Church, given its origins in New York, its headquarters in Utah, and the Book of Mormon story of an ancient American people. As I thought of friends in Asia, Africa, Europe, and other parts of the world, it was apparent that the discussant did not understand the universal nature of the restored gospel or the all-encompassing applicability of its ordinances, covenants, and blessings. The worldwide significance of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s First Vision and the Book of Mormon are not measured by location, but by their message regarding man’s relationship to God, the Father’s love for His children, and the divine potential within each human being.The prophetic call through all ages has been, “Come unto Christ, and be perfected in him”  see also    that salvation is through the Only Begotten Son of the Father (see   The call is universal and applies to all of God’s children, whether African, Asian, European, or any other nationality. As the Apostle Paul declared to the Athenians, all of us “are the offspring of God” The Father’s plan of life, with its central focus on Christ’s Atonement, was prepared before the foundation of the world (see   It was given to Adam and Eve, and they were commanded to teach it to their children (see  Over time, the posterity of Adam rejected the gospel, but it was renewed through Noah and then again through Abraham (see   The gospel was offered to the Israelites in Moses’s day. But a sterner taskmaster was required to bring them to Christ, given centuries in apostasy (see   The fulness of the gospel was finally restored to Israel by the Savior Himself in the meridian of time.One of the most illuminating passages of scripture regarding this sequence of apostasy and restoration is found in Jesus’s parable of the wicked husbandmen (see  In the parable, Jesus reminds the people of the many prophets who have been sent through the ages to raise up righteous nations. He then states how the messengers were rejected again and again. Some were beaten and sent away empty. Others were killed. And then, prophesying about His own ministry, Jesus tells His listeners that the Father decided to send His “one son, his well beloved”  saying, “They will reverence my son” Jesus, however, knowing His own fate, then declared:“But those husbandmen said … , This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be ours.“And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard” Following the Savior’s death and those of His Apostles, doctrines and ordinances were changed, and apostasy set in again. This time spiritual darkness lasted for hundreds of years before rays of light would once more penetrate the earth. The Apostle Peter knew of this Apostasy and prophesied following the Savior’s Ascension that the Lord would not return for His Second Coming until there was a “restitution of all things” (see  The Apostle Paul also prophesied of a time when the members would “not endure sound doctrine”  and that a “falling away”  would precede the Second Coming of Christ. He, too, referred to the “restitution of all things,” saying that the Savior “in the dispensation of the fulness of times … might gather together in one all things in Christ” The Lord directed the Restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The “restitution of all things” began in the Sacred Grove with the Father and the Son appearing to Joseph Smith. In vision, Joseph learned of God’s personal nature—that the Father and the Son are separate, exalted beings with bodies of flesh and bone.At the beginning of most dispensations, a book is given to the newly called prophet. Moses received tablets (see  Lehi was given a book to read concerning the destruction of Jerusalem (see  Ezekiel was given “a roll of a book”  containing the Lord’s message for the house of Judah in his day. John the Revelator on the Isle of Patmos was shown a book with seven seals (see   Is it any wonder, then, that the Lord would provide a book containing the fulness of the gospel as part of the “restitution of all things”? The Book of Mormon has the power to draw all men and women to Christ. Its references to the Savior’s Atonement are the clearest on record with regard to its purpose and powers.The Holy Spirit has whispered to my soul that Joseph saw the Father and the Son in the Sacred Grove and that the Book of Mormon is true. I am grateful for the additional knowledge concerning the Savior’s Atonement contained in the Book of Mormon. One of the titles given to the Savior is that of Only Begotten Son of the Father. For example, the Apostle John in his Gospel states that he beheld the majesty and glory of the Lord on the Mount of Transfiguration and that His glory was that of the “only begotten of the Father”  see also  The Book of Mormon likewise uses this title many times.Unlike mortals who inherit the seeds of death from both parents, Jesus was born of a mortal mother but an immortal Father. The seeds of death received from Mary meant that He could die, but the inheritance from His Father gave Him infinite life, which meant death was a voluntary act. Thus, Jesus told the Jewish people, “For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself” On another occasion He stated:“Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.“No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father” The infinite nature received from His Father gave Jesus power to perform the Atonement, to suffer for the sins of all. The prophet Alma in the Book of Mormon teaches that Jesus not only took upon Himself our sins but also our pains, afflictions, and temptations. Alma also explains that Jesus took upon Himself our sicknesses, death, and our infirmities. (See  This He did, Alma said, so that His “bowels may be filled with mercy, according to the flesh, that he may know … how to succor his people” The prophet Abinadi further states that “when his soul has been made an offering for sin he shall see his seed”  Abinadi then identifies the Savior’s seed as the prophets and those who follow them. For many years I thought of the Savior’s experience in the garden and on the cross as places where a large mass of sin was heaped upon Him. Through the words of Alma, Abinadi, Isaiah, and other prophets, however, my view has changed. Instead of an impersonal mass of sin, there was a long line of people, as Jesus felt “our infirmities”  “[bore] our griefs, … carried our sorrows … [and] was bruised for our iniquities” The Atonement was an intimate, personal experience in which Jesus came to know how to help each of us.The Pearl of Great Price teaches that Moses was shown all the inhabitants of the earth, which were “numberless as the sand upon the sea shore”  If Moses beheld every soul, then it seems reasonable that the Creator of the universe has the power to become intimately acquainted with each of us. He learned about your weaknesses and mine. He experienced your pains and sufferings. He experienced mine. I testify that He knows us. He understands the way in which we deal with temptations. He knows our weaknesses. But more than that, more than just knowing us, He knows how to help us if we come to Him in faith. That is why a young Hispanic woman suddenly realized that she was more than a speck in the universe when the Holy Spirit gave her a witness of the Restoration. She felt God’s love, that she was His daughter, and realized that He knew her. It also explains why the plan of salvation seemed familiar to my Japanese friend as the missionaries taught him and as the Holy Spirit confirmed his purposes on earth and his potential.I testify that the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is a pattern for all. It is not the location of events that matters; it is the good news—the timeless doctrine and atoning powers of the Lord Jesus Christ. I bear witness that He lives, that He is the Christ. I testify that the gospel restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith is Peter’s “restitution of all things.” I bear witness that President Gordon B. Hinckley is the Lord’s prophet today. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.I have lived a long time and watched the standards upon which civilization must depend for survival swept aside one piece at a time.We live in a day when the age-old standards of morality, marriage, home, and family suffer defeat after defeat in courts and councils, in parliaments and classrooms. Our happiness depends upon living those very standards.The Apostle Paul prophesied that in our day, these last days, men would be “disobedient to parents, … without natural affection, … despisers of those that are good, … lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God” And he warned: “Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived”  He was right. Nevertheless, when I think of the future, I am overwhelmed with a feeling of positive optimism.Paul told young Timothy to continue in the things he had learned from the Apostles and said he would be safe because “from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus” A knowledge of the scriptures is important. From them we learn about spiritual guidance.I have heard people say, “I would have willingly endured persecution and trials if I might have lived in the early years of the Church when there was such a flow of revelation published as scripture. Why is that not happening now?”The revelations that came through the Prophet Joseph Smith, printed as scripture, laid the permanent foundation of the Church through which the gospel of Jesus Christ could go forth to “every nation” The scriptures define the office of the Prophet and President and his Counselors, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, quorums of the Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, and the stakes and wards and branches. They define the offices of the Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthoods. They establish the channels through which inspiration and revelation can flow to the leaders and teachers and parents and to individuals.The opposition and trials are different now. If anything, they are more intense, more dangerous than in those early days, aimed not so much at the Church as at us as individuals. The early revelations, published as scriptures for the permanent guidance of the Church, define the ordinances and covenants and are still in force.One of those scriptures promises, “If ye are prepared ye shall not fear” Let me tell you what has been done to prepare us. Perhaps you will then understand why I do not fear the future, why I have such positive feelings of confidence.I cannot possibly describe in detail or even list all that has been put in place by the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in recent years. In them you will see continuing revelation, open to the Church and to each individual member. I will describe a few of them.More than 40 years ago, it was determined to make the doctrine quickly and easily available to every member of the Church by preparing a Latter-day Saint edition of the scriptures. We set out to cross-reference the King James Bible with the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. The text of the King James Bible was left completely unaltered.Work was done centuries ago to prepare for our day. Ninety percent of the King James Bible is as translated by William Tyndale and John Wycliffe. We owe much to those early translators, those martyrs.William Tyndale said, “I will cause a boy that driveth the plough shall know more of the Scripture than [the clergy].”Alma had come through great trials and faced even greater ones. And the record says, “And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to lead the people to do that which was just—yea, it had had more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them—therefore Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the word of God” That is exactly what we had in mind when we began the scripture project: that every member of the Church could know the scriptures and understand the principles and doctrines to be found in them. We set out to do in our day what Tyndale and Wycliffe had done in theirs.Both Tyndale and Wycliffe were terribly persecuted. Tyndale suffered in a freezing prison in Brussels. His clothing was worn to rags, and he was terribly cold. He wrote to the bishops asking for his coat and cap. He begged for a candle, saying, “It is indeed wearisome sitting alone in the dark.” They were so enraged at this request that he was taken from prison and, before a large crowd, burned at the stake.Wycliffe escaped death by burning, but the Council of Constance had his body exhumed, burned at the stake, and his ashes scattered.The Prophet Joseph Smith had borrowed the volumes of the  by the sixteenth-century English cleric John Foxe from the mother of Edward Stevenson of the Seventy. After he read them, he said, “I have, by the aid of the Urim and Thummim, seen those martyrs, and they were honest, devoted followers of Christ, according to the light they possessed, and they will be saved.”To cross-reference more than 70,000 verses of scripture and provide footnotes and helps was known to be enormously difficult, perhaps even impossible. But it was begun. It took 12 years and the help of over 600 people to complete. Some were experts in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew or had a knowledge of ancient scriptures. But most were ordinary, faithful members of the Church.The spirit of inspiration brooded over the work.The project would have been impossible without the computer.A remarkable system was designed to organize tens of thousands of footnotes to open the scriptures to every ploughboy and every ploughgirl.With a subject-matter index, a member can, in just a few minutes, look up such words as  and find revealing references from all four scriptures.Several years into the project, we asked how they were progressing with the tedious, laborious listing of topics in alphabetical order. They wrote, “We have been through  and  past  and  and now we’re working toward ”Original manuscripts of the Book of Mormon came into our hands. These made possible the correction of printers’ errors which creep into scriptural translations.Most notable in the Topical Guide are the 18 pages, single-spaced, small print, under the heading “Jesus Christ,” the most comprehensive compilation of scriptural information on the name Jesus Christ that has ever been assembled in the history of the world. Follow these references, and you will open the door to whose Church this is, what it teaches and by what authority, all anchored to the sacred name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Messiah, the Redeemer, our Lord.Two new revelations were added to the Doctrine and Covenants—section 137, a vision given to Joseph Smith the Prophet on the occasion of the administration of the endowment  and section 138, President Joseph F. Smith’s vision of the redemption of the dead  Then, just as this work was being closed for printing, the marvelous revelation on the priesthood was received and announced in an official declaration (see  proving that the scriptures are not closed.Then came the enormous challenge of translation into the languages of the Church. Now the triple combination, with the Guide to the Scriptures, has been published in 24 languages, with others to follow. The Book of Mormon is now printed in 106 languages. Forty-nine translations are under way.Other things were done. The Book of Mormon was given a subtitle—the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ.With the foundation doctrines in place as solid as the granite in the Salt Lake Temple and open to everyone, more could witness the constant flow of revelation to the Church. “We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God” While the scripture publication moved on, another great work was begun. This, too, would take years. The entire curriculum of the Church was restructured. All courses of study in priesthood and auxiliary organizations—for children, youth, and adults—were revised to center on the scriptures, to center on Jesus Christ, to center on the priesthood, and to center on the family.Hundreds of volunteers worked year in and year out. Some of them were experts in writing, curriculum, instruction, and other related fields, but most were ordinary members of the Church. It was all anchored in the scriptures, with emphasis on the authority of the priesthood and with focus on the sacred nature of the family.The First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles issued “The Family: A Proclamation to the World.” They then published “The Living Christ: The Testimony of the Apostles.”Seminaries and institutes of religion spread across the world. The teachers and students learn and teach by the Spirit (see  and both are taught to understand the scriptures, the words of the prophets, the plan of salvation, the Atonement of Jesus Christ, the Apostasy and Restoration, the unique position of the restored Church, and to identify the principles and doctrines found in them. Students are encouraged to develop a habit of daily scripture study.Monday night was reserved for family home evening. All activities of the Church are to yield so that families can be together.In natural sequence, missionary work was re-anchored to the revelations under the title “Preach My Gospel.” Each year more than 25,000 missionaries are released to return to their homes in 148 countries, after spending two years learning the doctrine and how to teach by the Spirit and sharing their testimonies.Principles of priesthood government have been clarified. The place of the quorums of the priesthood—Aaronic and Melchizedek—has been magnified. Always, everywhere, there are leaders who hold the keys—bishops and presidents—to give guidance, to clarify misunderstandings, to detect and correct false doctrines.The course of study for adults in Priesthood and Relief Society is based on the teachings of the Presidents of the Church.Church magazines have been redesigned and are published now in 50 languages.An awesome era of temple building goes on, with 122 temples opened for ordinance work and two more announced yesterday.Genealogy was renamed “Family History.” Faithful members are aided by the newest technology to prepare and bring names to the temple.These things all witness of continuing revelation. There are other things, too numerous to describe in detail.There is in the Church a central core of power deeper than programs or meetings or associations. It does not change. It cannot erode. It is constant and certain. It never recedes or fades.While the Church is housed in chapels, it lives in the heart and soul of every Latter-day Saint.Everywhere in the world, humble members draw inspiration from the scriptures to guide them through life, not fully understanding that they have found that “pearl of great price”  about which the Lord spoke to His disciples.When Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph, collected hymns for the first hymnbook, she included “Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah,” which is, in fact, a prayer:Every soul who willingly affiliates with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and seeks to abide by its principles and ordinances is standing “on Zion’s hill.”Each can receive assurance which comes through inspiration and testifies that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is just as He declared it to be, “the only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth”  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.