It was on “the morning of a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of eighteen hundred and twenty” when 14-year-old Joseph Smith went into the grove, knelt in prayer, and “saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above [him] in the air.” He said: “One of them spake unto me,  and said, pointing to the other—” Can you imagine how 14-year-old Joseph must have felt to see God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, and to hear Heavenly Father call him by his name?When I visited the Sacred Grove, I tried to imagine what it must have been like to have been Joseph Smith. In those quiet moments, the Spirit whispered to my beating heart that I was standing on holy ground and that all that the Prophet Joseph Smith had said was true. Then came the powerful realization that we are all the beneficiaries of his faith, courage, and steadfast desire to obey God. He had received an answer to his humble prayer. He had seen the Father and His Beloved Son. There in the Sacred Grove, I knew that Heavenly Father not only knew Joseph Smith by name, but He also knows each of us by name. And just as Joseph Smith had an important part to play in this great and marvelous work, we too have an important part to play in these latter days.Did you know that Heavenly Father knows you personally—by name? The scriptures teach us that this is true. When Enos went into the woods to pray, he recorded, “There came a voice unto me, saying:  thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.”Moses not only prayed but also talked to God face-to-face, and God said to Moses, “I have a work for thee,  my son.” The Lord knew Jacob’s name and changed it to to more accurately reflect his mission on the earth. Similarly, He changed the names of Paul and Abraham and Sarah. In Doctrine and Covenants, section 25, Emma Smith is given a blessing for her comfort and guidance in life. The Lord begins this blessing by saying, “Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you,  my daughter.”You may not have heard the Lord call you by name, but He knows each one of you and He knows your name. Elder Neal A. Maxwell said: “I testify to you that God has known you individually … for a long, long time (see  He has loved you for a long, long time. He not only knows the names of all the stars (see   He knows your names and all your heartaches and your joys!”How can you know that your name and needs are known by our Heavenly Father? Elder Robert D. Hales counseled: “Turn to the scriptures. Kneel in prayer. Ask in faith. Listen to the Holy Ghost. … Live the gospel with patience and persistence.”That’s what Joseph did. His testimony helps all of us know that we are known and loved by our Heavenly Father. We are truly daughters of a Heavenly Father who loves us. Elder Jeffrey R. Holland has told us: “No one of us is less treasured or cherished of God than another. … He loves each of us—insecurities, anxieties, self-image, and all. … He cheers on  runner, calling out that the race is against sin,  against each other.”Once Joseph Smith received this knowledge, his life didn’t get easier. In fact, he was faced with intense pressure from peers and adults. Joseph Smith’s history provides an important pattern for each of us. We can apply his teachings when we don’t know what to do, when we are faced with peer pressure, when we feel surrounded by temptation, or feel unworthy or alone. We can pray! We can call upon God in the name of His holy Son, Jesus Christ, and seek comfort, guidance, and direction. Have you ever had a problem and not known what to do? Joseph said: “My mind was called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness. … I often said to myself: What is to be done?”How did he receive comfort and guidance? He studied the scriptures, pondered their promises, and then “came to the determination to ‘ask of God.’” The answer he received that beautiful spring day changed his life and direction. He  He gained a testimony of God and Jesus Christ, and his testimony enabled him to live the gospel with patience and persistence. He was undeterred by peer pressure and persecution, for in his words he said, “I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it.” He could stand firm because of his testimony. And so can you.If you have ever felt the tug of peer pressure, pray, ask in faith, and listen to the Holy Ghost. Then live the gospel. Joseph keenly realized his imperfections and weaknesses. Again—he prayed. In response to this prayer, he was visited by the angel Moroni. Joseph recounted:  and said “that God had a work for me to do.”As we pray, the Lord will guide and prepare us to do our part. One summer, while touring Europe with the BYU International Folk Dancers, I learned an important lesson. I was sick and I became discouraged. I wanted to quit and go home. We were in Scotland to perform our show for the members, investigators, and missionaries. We went to the mission home for a prayer. As I entered, I glanced at a stone in the front garden. Chiseled in the stone were the words “What-e’er thou art act well thy part.” That message went like electricity to my heart. I felt that that stone was speaking to me. It changed me. I knew at that instant that I had a part to play not only on that dancing tour but throughout my life and that it was very important to “act well” my part.What does the Lord expect us to do? He expects us to play our part in the final scenes prior to His coming. He expects us to prove ourselves worthy to return and live with Him. He expects us to become like Him. Follow Joseph’s pattern. I love the words in the hymn the choir just sang: “But undaunted, still he trusted / In his Heav’nly Father’s care.” To be  means unshaken in purpose, resolutely courageous. Joseph described himself as a “disturber” of the adversary’s kingdom. He said, “It seems as though the adversary was aware … that I was destined to prove a disturber and an annoyer of his kingdom.” I have written in the margin of my scriptures,  Trust in your Heavenly Father’s care.Each of us will play an important part if we follow the pattern established by Joseph Smith. The Lord strengthened Joseph Smith for his divine mission. He will strengthen you for yours. He may even send His holy angels to tutor you. Now the challenge is this: Will you be in such a place that angels can enter? Will you be still enough to hear? Will you be undaunted and trust?We are living at a time when the fulness of the gospel has been restored to the earth through the Lord’s prophet, Joseph Smith. We are living in a time when we have the Book of Mormon to guide us. We are living in a time when we have a living prophet, the priesthood power on the earth, and the sealing power to bind families together for eternity in holy temples. Truly these are days “never to be forgotten”!It is my prayer that each one of us might be firm in our faith, that we might follow the pattern Joseph Smith established for us to gain a testimony. I also pray that each of us will worthily represent the Savior as we take upon ourselves His name. He has promised: “As the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, … so shall your … name remain.”My testimony of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ has served as a guide and an anchor in my life. I am grateful to stand before you today and say with all the energy of my heart, “We thank thee, O God, for a prophet.” I am so grateful for the integrity of a 14-year-old young man who prayed for an answer to his questions and then remained true to the knowledge he received.Each of you has a part to play in this great and marvelous work. The Savior will help you. He will lead you by the hand. He knows you by name. I so testify, in the sacred  of Jesus Christ, amen.I remember a family home evening lesson when I was a girl where my father taught us of the visit of the angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith. He said that after a sincere prayer, an angel appeared at Joseph’s bedside. The angel was a messenger sent from God, his name was Moroni, and he told Joseph that God had a work for him to do (see  I remember my father teaching that “Joseph did not say, ‘Oh no, Angel, I just wanted to know which church was true. I did not know I needed to  something!’” But of course Joseph needed to do something. He had a special calling from the Lord.What Joseph did was remarkable. He began life as a simple farm boy, but through him the Book of Mormon was brought forth and translated, the priesthood and its keys were restored to earth, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and holy temples began to be built. Through Joseph Smith all the ordinances the children of our Heavenly Father need for their salvation are now upon the earth.  was the day of miracles spoken of in Moroni (see  and the marvelous work and wonder foretold to Nephi centuries ago (see The work Joseph started was carried on by early members of the Church who had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His restored gospel. Through their efforts the gospel of Jesus Christ began to spread over all the earth.  truly did a marvelous work.But the day of miracles is not over, and the marvelous work is still going on. When we were baptized, each of us became part of that work.This past year as I have visited with members of the Church, I have seen that through the faith and work of simple people, the Lord’s covenant is being established on the earth (see There is a young woman in Korea who is the first member of the Church in her family. She held her well-worn Personal Progress book and said she dreamed of having a gospel-centered family. A Young Women president in Armenia is carrying out the Young Women program faithfully although she does not have a  written in her language.Members in Russia go to the temple regularly. They save their rubles and travel for days by bus, train, and boat to get to the nearest temple in Sweden.My nine-year-old niece, Kimberly, talked so enthusiastically about the Church to her friend that her friend said, “I want to sign up for your church. Where do I sign up?”The young men and young women in my own ward are developing leadership skills and talents. They are willing to sing, play musical instruments, give talks, participate in service projects, and do any number of other things so that they can be part of this marvelous work.And then there was the young man in Bogotá who said, “I speak on behalf of the young men of Colombia. We are worthy and we are preparing to serve!”I have been where the Church is small and where it is large in numbers, where it is new and where it is well established, but the responsibility of each one of us is the same: we are part of the true, restored gospel of Jesus Christ. We have a work to do. We serve in simple ways, our testimonies grow, and we are part of this day of miracles.In my own lifetime I have been a witness to the miracle of the restored gospel. When I was a young girl my family moved to São Paulo, Brazil, where my father had been called to preside over the Brazilian Mission. It was an exciting time for me and a great place to grow up. A favorite game for my brothers and me was to dress up and pretend to be missionaries. We spent hours scribbling our own missionary pamphlets and “preaching” and “transferring” all over the yard. For five years the nightly conversations around our dinner table centered on missionary work, and I listened intently to stories of faith told by missionaries. Even at that age I knew I was part of a great work.There were only about 3,000 members of the Church in Brazil when we arrived there. I remember being in a very small Primary with a few other children, singing the same five songs every week, as those were the only ones translated into Portuguese. Two of my favorite songs were “A Luz Divina,” or “The Light Divine” ( no. 305), and something about a bunny in the middle of the woods (see “The Little Rabbit,”  June 1955, 257).In many ways our experience was similar to the early pioneers. We had no hymnbooks or pictures or lesson manuals sent from the headquarters of the Church. Everything that was needed to teach the gospel in Portuguese was written and printed in our mission home. All of us, even the children, were pressed into service to help assemble mission newsletters and lessons. No one shipped the Church to us. The prophet did not send us stake presidents or bishops. He did not send Relief Society presidents or youth programs. The Church in Brazil was made from the same material that the pioneers started with. The material to build the Church was in the people.During our years in Brazil, we saw great growth come to the Church. Thousands became Latter-day Saints. Soon the mission was divided, districts and branches were organized, and new chapels were built. The new members were enthusiastic, and they grew in faith and became more experienced in the manner of the gospel.A lot of years passed, and then last year I returned to Brazil to attend the rededication of the São Paulo temple. At that time I learned that there were 187 stakes in Brazil. There are now 26 missions, 4 temples, and almost 1 million members. Imagine my surprise when I walked into a stadium filled with over 60,000 members who had gathered to hear President Gordon B. Hinckley and celebrate the temple dedication. To me it was a miracle to see thousands of youth dancing and singing together. As I watched that joyful celebration, I kept saying to myself, “This is amazing! This is a miracle! How did this miracle happen?”I marveled all that night at what I had seen. Then, the next morning at the temple dedication, I had a reunion with my Primary teacher, Sister Gloria Silveira. That was when I knew how the miracle had come about. As a new convert with no prior Church experience, Sister Silveira had come to Primary prepared to share her simple testimony and teach me the Articles of Faith in Portuguese. She and her husband, Humberto, are still faithful. They have served in many Church callings over the years, and they are still serving. When I saw Sister Silveira, I realized that the Church in Brazil had grown because of her and thousands like her. She and Brother Silveira represent people everywhere who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel. They have grown in knowledge and skill, and they have served in the Church (see  They have shared the gospel with friends (see  They work in the temple (see  They taught their five children correct principles (see  Of their 43 descendants, 15 have served full-time missions. Their grandchildren are now marrying in the temple, and their great-grandchildren are the fourth generation of Silveiras who are part of the marvelous work that was started by Joseph Smith. Because of them, faith has increased in the earth. They are an example of the miracle the Lord spoke about when He said that His gospel would be proclaimed by the weak and the simple (see  and that by small and simple means great things are brought to pass (see The Lord sent an angel to Joseph Smith to tell him that he had a work to do. That work continues today in us and is directed by President Gordon B. Hinckley, a living prophet, who said: “Glorious is this work. It will bless the life of every man, woman, boy, and girl who embraces it” (“Missionary Service,”  Jan. 11, 2003, 21). “God be thanked for His marvelous bestowal of testimony, authority, and doctrine associated with this, the restored Church of Jesus Christ” (“The Marvelous Foundation of Our Faith,”  and  Nov. 2002, 81). In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.