My brothers and sisters, my heart is full as we bring to a close this wonderful general conference of the Church. We have been spiritually fed as we have listened to the counsel and testimonies of those who have participated in each session.We have been blessed to meet here in the magnificent Conference Center in peace and safety. We have had unprecedented coverage of the conference, reaching across the continents to people everywhere. Though we are physically far removed from many of you, we feel of your spirit.To our Brethren who have been released at this conference, may I express the heartfelt thanks of the entire Church for your years of devoted service. Countless are those who have been blessed by your contributions to the work of the Lord.I express gratitude to the Tabernacle Choir and to the other choirs which participated in this conference. The music has been beautiful and has added greatly to the Spirit we have felt at each session.I thank you for your prayers in my behalf and in behalf of all the General Authorities and general officers of the Church. We are strengthened by them.May heaven’s blessings be with you. May your homes be filled with love and courtesy and with the Spirit of the Lord. May you constantly nourish your testimonies of the gospel that they will be a protection to you against the buffetings of the adversary.Conference is now over. As we return to our homes, may we do so safely. May the Spirit we have felt here be and abide with us as we go about those things which occupy us each day. May we show increased kindness toward one another, and may we ever be found doing the work of the Lord.My brothers and sisters, may God bless you. May His promised peace be with you now and always. I bid you farewell until we meet again in six months’ time. In the name of our Savior, even Jesus Christ the Lord, amen.My dear brothers and sisters, each day is a day of decision. President Thomas S. Monson has taught us that “decisions determine destiny.” The wise use of your freedom to make your own decisions is crucial to your spiritual growth, now and for eternity. You are never too young to learn, never too old to change. Your yearnings to learn and change come from a divinely instilled striving for eternal progression. Each day brings opportunity for decisions for eternity.We are eternal beings—spirit children of heavenly parents. The Bible records that “God created man in his own image, … male and female created he them.” Recently I heard a chorus of children sing the beloved song “I Am a Child of God.” I wondered, “Why haven’t I heard that song rendered more often by singing mothers or faithful fathers?” Are we not  children of God? In truth, not one of us can  being a child of God!As children of God, we should love Him with all our heart and soul, even more than we love our earthly parents. We should love our neighbors as brothers and sisters. No other commandments are greater than these. And we should ever revere the worth of human life, through each of its many stages.Scripture teaches that the body and the spirit are the soul of man. As a dual being, each of you can thank God for His priceless gifts of your body and your spirit.