My heart sank during a recent meeting with wonderful Latter-day Saints. The question was asked, “Who desires to live with Heavenly Father again?” Every hand went up. The next question was “Who has confidence you’ll succeed?” Sadly and surprisingly, most hands went down.When we perceive a gap between who we are now and who we desire to become, many of us are tempted to choose to lose faith and hope.Because “no unclean thing can dwell with God,” in order to live with Him again we will need to be cleansed of sin and sanctified. If we had to do this  none of us would make it. But we are not alone. In fact, we are  alone.We have heaven’s help because of Jesus Christ and His Atonement. The Savior said, “If ye will have faith in me ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is expedient in me.” When faith is exercised, faith increases.Let’s consider together three principles that will help us on our journey back to our Father in Heaven.The Savior perceived the strength or weakness in the faith of those around Him. To one, He said approvingly, “Great is thy faith.” He lamented to another, “O ye of little faith.” He questioned others, “Where is your faith?” And Jesus distinguished yet another with, “[In all Israel] I have not found so great faith.”I ask myself, “How does the Savior see my faith?” And tonight I ask you, “How does the Savior see your faith?”Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is not something ethereal, floating loosely in the air. Faith does not fall upon us by chance or stay with us by birthright. It is, as the scriptures say, “substance … , the evidence of things not seen.” Faith emits a spiritual light, and that light is discernible. Faith in Jesus Christ is a gift from heaven that comes as we choose to believe and as we seek it and hold on to it. Your faith is either growing stronger or becoming weaker. Faith is a principle of power, important not only in this life but also in our progression beyond the veil. By the grace of Christ, we will one day be saved through faith on His name. The future of your faith is not by chance, but by choice.There are many Christian men and women with deep faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and we honor and respect them.My dear friends, your faith did not begin at birth, and it will not end at death. Faith is a choice. Strengthen your faith, and live to be deserving of the Savior’s approving words: “Great is thy faith.” As you do, I promise you that your faith, through the grace of Jesus Christ, will one day allow you to stand with those you love, clean and pure in the presence of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.