I loved my father and how he taught. I wanted to be like him. He planted in my heart the desire to be a good father, and my deepest hope is that I am living up to his example.Our beloved prophet, President Thomas S. Monson, has often said that our decisions determine our destiny and have eternal consequences (see “Decisions Determine Destiny” [Church Educational System fireside, Nov. 6, 2005], 2; lds.org/broadcasts).Should we not, then, develop a clear vision of our  particularly the one that Heavenly Father wants us to achieve—eternal fatherhood? Let our  drive  of our decisions. Regardless of how difficult those decisions may be, Father will sustain us.Fathers, I am sure you have heard the saying “Preach the gospel at all times, and when necessary use words” (attributed to Francis of Assisi). Every day you are teaching your children what it means to be a father. You are laying a foundation for the next generation. Your sons will learn how to be husbands and fathers by observing the way you fulfill these roles. For example:Do they know how much you love and cherish their mother and how much you love being their father?They will learn how to treat their future wife and children as they watch you treat  just as Heavenly Father would.Through your example, they can learn how to respect, honor, and protect womanhood.In your home, they can learn to preside over their family in love and righteousness. They can learn to provide the necessities of life and protection for their family—temporally and spiritually (see “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” or  Nov. 2010, 129).Brethren, with all the energy of my soul, I ask you to consider this question: Do your sons see you striving to do what Heavenly Father would have  do?I pray the answer is yes. If the answer is no, it’s not too late to change, but you must begin today. And I testify that Heavenly Father will help you.Now, you young men, whom I dearly love, you know you are preparing to receive the Melchizedek Priesthood, receive sacred temple ordinances, fulfill your  and  to serve a full-time mission, and then, without waiting too long, get married in the temple to a daughter of God and have a family. You are then to lead your family in spiritual things as guided by the Holy Ghost (see   I have asked many young men around the world, “Why are you here?”So far, not one has responded, “To learn to be a father, that I might be prepared and qualified to receive all that Heavenly Father has.”Let’s examine  Aaronic Priesthood duties as described in section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Be sensitive to what  feel as I apply these duties to your service in your family.“Invite all [of your family] to come unto Christ” “Watch over [them] always, and be with and strengthen them” “Preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize” members of your family “Exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties” “See that there is no iniquity in [your family], neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking” “See that [your family meets] together often” Assist your father in his duties as patriarch. Support your mother with priesthood strength when a father is not present (see When asked, “ordain other priests, teachers, and deacons” in your family Doesn’t this sound like ?Fulfilling your Aaronic Priesthood duties is preparing you young men for  The  resource can help you learn about and make specific plans to fulfill your duties. It can serve as a guide and assistance as you seek Heavenly Father’s will and set goals to accomplish it.Father in Heaven has brought you here at this particular time for a special work and eternal purpose. He wants you to see clearly and understand what that purpose is. He is your Father, and you can always turn to Him for guidance.I know that Heavenly Father is concerned about each of us individually and has a personal plan for us to achieve our eternal destiny. He has sent His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to help us overcome our imperfections through the Atonement. He has blessed us with the Holy Ghost to be a witness, companion, and guide  if we will rely on Him. May we each enjoy the fulness of Father’s blessings in this life and the fulfillment of  and  by becoming fathers to our families for eternity (see  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.