My beloved sisters, how we love you and thank you for your tenderhearted and enthusiastic response to the First Presidency’s invitation and the #IWasAStranger effort. Please keep praying, listening to the whisperings of the Spirit, and acting on the promptings you receive.Whether I travel locally or throughout the world, it is not unusual for someone to ask, “Do you remember me?” Because I am painfully imperfect, I must admit I often can’t remember names. However, I do remember the very real love Heavenly Father has allowed me to feel as I meet His precious daughters and sons.Recently I had the opportunity to visit some beloved women who are in prison. As we said our heartfelt goodbyes, one darling woman pleaded, “Sister Burton, please don’t forget us.” I hope she and others who want to be remembered will feel so as I share a few thoughts with you.As I have prepared for this meeting, my heart has turned to the many faithful sisters whom I have met, near and far. For me, they are best described in a psalm of thanksgiving by King David: “Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come before him: worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.”I see the beauty of holiness in sisters whose hearts are centered on all that is good, who want to become more like the Savior. They offer their whole soul, heart, might, mind, and strength to the Lord in the way that they live every day. Holiness is in the striving and the struggle to keep the commandments and to honor the covenants we have made with God. Holiness is making the choices that will keep the Holy Ghost as our guide. Holiness is setting aside our natural tendencies and becoming “a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.” “Every moment of [our lives] must be holiness to the Lord.”The God of heaven commanded the children of Israel, “For I am the Lord your God: ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye defile yourselves.”Elder D. Todd Christofferson has taught: “Our Heavenly Father is a God of high expectations. … He proposes to make us holy so that we may ‘abide a celestial glory’  and ‘dwell in his presence’  explains, “No being can enjoy his glory without possessing his perfections and holiness.” Our Father in Heaven knows us. He loves us, and He has provided for us all that is required so that we can become holy as He is holy.We are daughters of Heavenly Father, and each of us has a divine heritage of holiness. Our Father in Heaven has declared, “Behold, I am God; Man of Holiness is my name.” In the premortal world, we loved our Father and worshipped Him. We desired to be like Him. Out of perfect paternal love, He gave His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to be our Savior and Redeemer. He is the Son of Man of Holiness. His “name is Holy,” “the Holy One of Israel.”Our hope for holiness is centered in Christ, in His mercy and His grace. With faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, we may become clean, without spot, when we deny ourselves of ungodliness and sincerely repent. We are baptized by water for the remission of sins. Our souls are sanctified when we receive the Holy Ghost with open hearts. Weekly, we partake of the ordinance of the sacrament. In a spirit of repentance, with sincere desires for righteousness, we covenant that we are willing to take upon us the name of Christ, remember Him, and keep His commandments so that we may always have His Spirit to be with us. Over time, as we continually strive to become one with the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, we become partakers of Their divine nature.