Modern revelation defines truth as a “knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come”  That is a perfect definition for the plan of salvation and “The Family: A Proclamation to the World.”We live in a time of greatly expanded and disseminated information. But not all of this information is true. We need to be cautious as we seek truth and choose sources for that search. We should not consider secular prominence or authority as qualified sources of truth. We should be cautious about relying on information or advice offered by entertainment stars, prominent athletes, or anonymous internet sources. Expertise in one field should not be taken as expertise on truth in other subjects.We should also be cautious about the motivation of the one who provides information. That is why the scriptures warn us against priestcraft (see  If the source is anonymous or unknown, the information may also be suspect.Our personal decisions should be based on information from sources that are qualified on the subject and free from selfish motivations.A rope is an essential tool with which all of us are familiar. Ropes are made from strands of fabric, plants, wire, or other materials that are each individually twisted or braided together. Interestingly, substances that may be quite unexceptional can be woven together and become exceptionally strong. Thus, effectively connecting and binding ordinary materials can produce an extraordinary tool.Just as a rope obtains its strength from many intertwined individual strands, so the gospel of Jesus Christ provides the greatest perspective of truth and offers the richest blessings as we heed the admonition of Paul to “gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him.” Importantly, this vital gathering of truth is centered in and focused upon the Lord Jesus Christ because He is “the way, the truth, and the life.”  I pray that the Holy Ghost will enlighten each of us as we consider how the principle of  applies in practical ways to learning and living His restored gospel in our daily lives.