My dear wife, Julie, and I have raised six precious children, and we recently became empty nesters. How I miss having our children in our home on a full-time basis. I miss learning from them and teaching them.Today I direct my remarks to all parents and all who desire to be parents. Many of you are raising children now. For others, that time might come soon. And for still others, parenthood may be a future blessing. I pray we all recognize the joyful and sacred responsibility it is to teach a child. As parents, we introduce our children to Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. We help our children say their first prayer. We offer guidance and support as they enter the covenant path through baptism. We teach them to obey God’s commandments. We educate them about His plan for His children, and we help them recognize the whisperings of the Holy Ghost. We tell them stories of ancient prophets and encourage them to follow living ones. We pray for their triumphs and ache with them during their trials. We testify to our children of temple blessings, and we strive to prepare them well to serve full-time missions. We offer loving counsel as our children become parents themselves. But—even then—we never stop being their parents. We never stop being their teachers. We are never released from these eternal callings. Today let’s contemplate a few of the wonderful opportunities we have to teach our children in our homes.Brothers and sisters, I rejoice with you in the gospel, or the doctrine of Christ.A friend once asked Elder Neil L. Andersen, then of the Seventy, how it felt to speak in front of 21,000 people at the Conference Center. Elder Andersen replied, “It is not the 21,000 people who make you nervous; it is the 15 Brethren seated behind you.” I chuckled then, but I feel it now. How I love and sustain these 15 men as prophets, seers, and revelators.The Lord told Abraham that through his seed and through the priesthood, all the families of the earth would be blessed “with the blessings of the Gospel, … even of life eternal”  see also These promised blessings of the gospel and the priesthood were restored to the earth, and then, in 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith administered the endowment to a limited number of men and women. Mercy Fielding Thompson was one of them. The Prophet said to her, “This [endowment] will bring you out of darkness into marvelous light.” Today I want to focus on saving ordinances, which will bring you and me marvelous light.