Thank you, Brother Holmes, for your important message.Dear brethren, we deeply miss President Thomas S. Monson and Elder Robert D. Hales. Yet we “all press on in the work of the Lord.” I am very grateful for each man who bears the holy priesthood. You are the hope of our Redeemer, who desires “that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world.” He wants  of His ordained sons to represent Him, to speak for Him, to act for Him, and to bless the lives of God’s children throughout the world, to the end “that faith also might increase in [all] the earth.”  Some of you serve where the Church has been established for generations. Others serve where the Church is relatively new. For some, your wards are large. For others, your branches are small and distances are great. Regardless of your individual circumstances, each of you is a member of a priesthood quorum with a divine mandate to learn and to teach, to love and to serve others.Tonight we announce a significant restructuring of our Melchizedek Priesthood quorums to accomplish the work of the Lord more effectively.  This adjustment will greatly enhance the capacity and the ability of men who bear the priesthood to serve others. Prospective elders will be welcomed in and fellowshipped by that quorum. In each stake, the stake presidency will continue to preside over the stake high priests quorum. But the composition of that quorum will be based on  priesthood callings, as will be explained later.Elder D. Todd Christofferson and Elder Ronald A. Rasband of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles will now teach us more about these important adjustments.These modifications have been under study for many months. We have felt a pressing need to improve the way we care for our members and report our contacts with them. To do that better, we need to strengthen our priesthood quorums to give greater direction to the ministering of love and support that the Lord intends for His Saints.These adjustments are inspired of the Lord. As we implement them, we will be even more effective than we have ever been previously.We are engaged in the work of Almighty God. Jesus is the Christ! We are His humble servants! God bless you, brethren, as we learn of and do our duty, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.Brethren, it is a privilege to be with you in this historic conference. When I was a new mission president, I was excited to receive our first group of new missionaries. A few of our more experienced missionaries were preparing for a brief meeting with them. I noticed that they had arranged children’s chairs in a semicircle.“What’s up with the little chairs?” I asked.The missionaries, somewhat sheepishly, said, “For the new missionaries.”I believe the way we see others significantly impacts their perception of who they are and what they can become. Our new missionaries sat on adult chairs that day. Sometimes, I fear, we figuratively give our young men of the Aaronic Priesthood children’s chairs to sit on rather than helping them see that God has given them a sacred trust and a vital work to do.President Thomas S. Monson counseled us that young men need to understand “what it means … to be bearers of the priesthood of God. They need to be guided to a spiritual awareness of the sacredness of their ordained calling.” Today I pray that the Holy Ghost will guide us to a greater understanding of the power and sacredness of the Aaronic Priesthood and inspire us to focus more diligently on our priesthood duties. My message is for all Aaronic Priesthood holders, including those who also hold the Melchizedek Priesthood.Elder Dale G. Renlund taught that the purpose of the priesthood is to provide God’s children access to the atoning power of Jesus Christ. To receive Christ’s atoning power in our lives, we must believe in Him, repent of our sins, make and keep sacred covenants through ordinances, and receive the Holy Ghost. These are not principles we engage in just once; rather, they work together, reinforcing and building on each other in a continuing process of upward progression to “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him.”   So, what is the role of the Aaronic Priesthood in this? How does it help us gain access to Christ’s atoning power? I believe the answer lies in the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood—the keys of the ministering of angels and of the preparatory gospel. 